The Chargify API allows you to interact with our system programmatically from your own application.
 
The API attempts to conform to the "RESTful":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_State_Transfer design principles. You interact with the resources exposed via the API by accessing resource collection and element URIs using the HTTP verbs (GET, POST, PUT, and DELETE).  Chargify API v2.1 accepts JSON and form-encoded parameters, and returns only JSON.

h3. Authentication

Authentication is implemented as HTTP Basic Authentication or OAuth over SSL (https), as described in "API Authentication":api-v21-authentication

h3. URL

The URL for API v2.1 requests takes the following format:

<pre>
<code>https://api.chargify.com/api/v2.1/<resource URI></code>
</pre>


h3. Resources

The available resources are listed on the "API v2.1 Resources":/api-v21-resources page.


h3. Response Data

Response data is sent as JSON, regardless of the type of data requested (HTTP @Content-Type@ header) or the type specified as being accepted (HTTP @Accept@ header).

Response codes are sent via the normal HTTP Response Code, and are documented separately for each resource.

h3. Request Data

POST and PUT request data may be formatted as either FORM data (@application/x-www-form-urlencoded@) or JSON (@application/json@).


h3. Debugging

If you're having difficulty executing a request via our API, try the simplest thing and attempt your request via the curl command-line tool.  You can send a request to the "mirror":/api-v21-mirror endpoint to ensure you are authenticated, and that the parameters you are passing are formatted in the way you expect. Add the @--verbose@ flag to your request to receive even more debugging information.

Another handy tool is "RequestBin":http://requestb.in/  You could create a RequestBin and send your request to them instead of us to see visually what it is you're sending, if you're not sure.
