Chargify Events include various activity that happens around a Site.

The following fields are returned from GET (read) operations. Note, all events are *read only*.

* @id@
* @key@
* @message@
* @subscription_id@
* @event_specific_data@
* @created_at@

The following are different types of events you may see in the `key` field:

* @payment_success@
* @payment_failure@
* @signup_success@
* @signup_failure@
* @billing_date_change@
* @renewal_success@
* @renewal_failure@
* @subscription_state_change@
* @subscription_product_change@
* @expiring_card@
* @customer_update@
* @subscription_deletion@
* @component_allocation_change@
* @metered_usage@
* @upgrade_downgrade_success@
* @upgrade_downgrade_failure@
* @trial_end_notice@
* @upcoming_renewal_notice@
* @statement_closed@
* @statement_settled@
* @subscription_card_update@
* @subscription_bank_account_update@
* @subscription_paypal_account_update@
* @refund_success@
* @refund_failure@
* @expiration_date_change@
* @account_transaction_changed@ - Transaction Deleted
* @zferral_revenue_post_success@ - Specific to the "Zferral integration":/zferral-integration
* @zferral_revenue_post_failure@ - Specific to the "Zferral integration":/zferral-integration
* @renewal_success_recreated@ Created as result of "this incident":http://help.chargify.com/entries/20756693-missing-webhooks-12-5-12-10
* @renewal_failure_recreated@ Created as result of "this incident":http://help.chargify.com/entries/20756693-missing-webhooks-12-5-12-10
* @payment_success_recreated@ Created as result of "this incident":http://help.chargify.com/entries/20756693-missing-webhooks-12-5-12-10
* @payment_failure_recreated@ Created as result of "this incident":http://help.chargify.com/entries/20756693-missing-webhooks-12-5-12-10

h2. Methods

h3. List Events for a Subscription

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/events.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Formats: JSON, XML
Optional Parameters: @filter@ - any type listed above, @page@, @per_page@, @since_id@, @max_id@, @direction@ - values @asc@ and @desc@ are valid, @desc@ by default
Response: An array of Events

h3. List Events for a Site

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/events.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Formats: JSON, XML
Required Parameters: @id@
Optional Parameters: @filter@ - any type listed above, @page@, @per_page@, @since_id@, @max_id@, @direction@ - values @asc@ and @desc@ are valid, @desc@ by default
Response: An array of Events

h2. Event Specific Data

Each event type has its own `event_specific_data` specified.

Here's an example event for the `subscription_product_change` event:

<pre>
{
    "event": {
        "id": 351,
        "key": "subscription_product_change",
        "message": "Product changed on Marky Mark's subscription from 'Basic' to 'Pro'",
        "subscription_id": 205,
        "event_specific_data": {
            "new_product_id": 3,
            "previous_product_id": 2
        },
        "created_at": "2012-01-30T10:43:31-05:00"
    }
}
</pre>

Here's an example event for the `subscription_state_change` event:

<pre>
 {
     "event": {
         "id": 353,
         "key": "subscription_state_change",
         "message": "State changed on Marky Mark's subscription to Pro from trialing to active",
         "subscription_id": 205,
         "event_specific_data": {
             "new_subscription_state": "active",
             "previous_subscription_state": "trialing"
         },
         "created_at": "2012-01-30T10:43:33-05:00"
     }
 }
</pre>

h2. Pagination

Results are paginated and return 20 responses per page.  Get additional pages or more results per page (up to 200) by passing the @page@ and @per_page@ parameters:

<pre>
https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id]/events.json?per_page=100&page=3
</pre>
