h2. URI/Method

|_. Resource/URI |_. GET |_. POST |_. PUT |_. DELETE |
| Signups<br/>@signups@ | - | Create new signup | - | - |

h2. Signup Input Attributes

When creating a signup, you must specify a @product@, @customer@, and @payment_profile@, all within the @signup@ object.  Credit card details may be required, depending on the options for the Product being subscribed (see "Product Options":/product-options).

The product may be specified by either @product[id]@ or by @product[handle]@ (API Handle).

* @product@
** @id@ The id of the product your customer is signing up for
** @handle@ The API handle of the product your customer is signing up for
* @customer@
** @first_name@ (Required)
** @last_name@ (Required)
** @email@ (Required)
** @organization@ (Optional) Customer's organization
** @reference@ (Optional, but encouraged) The unique identifier used within your own application for this customer
** @address@ (Optional) The customer’s shipping street address (i.e. “123 Main St.”).
** @address_2@ (Optional) Second line of the customer’s shipping address i.e. “Apt. 100”
** @city@ (Optional) The customer’s shipping address city (i.e. “Boston”).
** @state@ (Optional) The customer’s shipping address state (i.e. “MA”)
** @zip@ (Optional) The customer’s shipping address zip code (i.e. “12345”).
** @country@ (Optional) The customer shipping address country, perferably in "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2 format (i.e. “US”).
** @phone@ (Optional) The phone number of the customer.

* @payment_profile@
** @first_name@ First name on card or bank account
** @last_name@ Last name on card or bank account
** @card_number@ The full credit card number (string representation, i.e. "5424000000000015")
** @cvv@ (Optional if the payment method is a credit card) The 3 or 4 digit card verification value.
** @expiration_month@  The 1- or 2-digit credit card expiration month, as an integer or string, i.e. "5"
** @expiration_year@  The 4-digit credit card expiration year, as an integer or string, i.e. "2012"
** @billing_address@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing street address (i.e. "123 Main St."). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_address_2@ (Optional) Second line of the customer's billing address i.e. "Apt. 100"
** @billing_city@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address city (i.e. "Boston"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_state@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address state (i.e. "MA"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_zip@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address zip code (i.e. "12345"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_country@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address country, preferably in "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2 format (i.e. "US"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway. Some gateways require country codes in a specific format. Please check your gateway's documentation. At this time, when creating a bank account, only @US@ is accepted._
** @bank_name@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The name of the bank where the customer's account resides
** @bank_routing_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The routing number of the bank
** @bank_account_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The customer's bank account number
** @bank_account_type@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) Either @checking@ or @savings@
** @bank_account_holder_type@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) Either @personal@ or @business@
** @payment_type@ Required for PayPal. Set to @paypal_account@.
** @payment_method_nonce@ Required for Paypal.
** @paypal_email@ Required for PayPal, but only used for display.

* @subscription@
** @snap_day@ (Optional) Used for "Calendar Billing":/billing-dates#calendar-billing. Set to a number between @1@ and @28@, or @end@.

* @components@
* @agreement_terms@ The ACH agreement terms, if creating a subscription with a @bank_account@ as the payment profile
* @metafields@ (Optional) A set of key/value pairs representing custom fields and their values. Metafields will be created "on-the-fly" in your site for a given key, if they have not been created yet.
* @ref@ (Optional, see "Referrals":/referrals for more details.) A valid referral code.
* @coupon_code@ (Optional, see "Coupons":/coupons for more details.) A valid coupon code.


Components are attached/allocated to the signup by including the @component@ key.  The sub-keys should be component IDs, and the values are the allocated quantities.  See examples below.

h2(#signup-request). Signup Request

h3. Via Chargify Direct

There are two ways to create a new signup via the Chargify API v2. The first is via "Chargify Direct":/chargify-direct-introduction. If you are going to use this method you must be sure to include "secure parameters":/chargify-direct-introduction#secure-parameters in your request. Below is an example of a form that could be used to create a new signup via Chargify Direct.

h4. Chargify Direct Example Request

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2/signups@
Method: @POST@

<script src="https://gist.github.com/8d9ed3261405b94b0e1f.js?file=sample-html-form.html"></script>

h4. Chargify Direct Example with Components

In order to set components via a Chargify Direct form, you can create form elements similar to the following:

h5. Component Allocation

Assume that there is a Quantity-based Component called "Widgets" with ID 1234 and an On/Off Component with ID 5678 called "Support"

You would like to allow your users to select 1 - 5 Widgets, and turn support On or Off.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/moklett/1b4b587447682da4b39e.js?file=sample-html-form-with-components.html"></script>

h4. Chargify Direct Example with Custom Fields

Custom Fields (or Metafields) can be included in Chargify Direct forms as follows:

<pre><code><input type="text" name="signup[metafields][color]" />
<input type="text" name="signup[metafields][size]" />
</code></pre>

h4. Chargify Direct Example with a Coupon Code

A coupon code can be included in Chargify Direct forms as follows:

<pre><code><input type="text" name="signup[coupon_code]" />
</code></pre>

h3. Via JSON

New signups can also be created by sending JSON to the same endpoint. If you are going to use this method, you must set the @Content-Type@ header of your HTTP @POST@ request to @application/json@, otherwise the request will be processed as a Chargify Direct request.

h4. JSON Example Request

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2/signups@
Method: @POST@
Content-Type: @application/json@

<script src="https://gist.github.com/1b4b587447682da4b39e.js?file=signup-request.json"></script>
Note that the above example shows setting a Quantity-based Component with ID "1234" to an allocated quantity of 4, and an On/Off Component with ID "5678" to "Off".

And using ACH:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/8d9ed3261405b94b0e1f.js?file=signup-request-ach.json"></script>

And with metafields:

<pre><code>{
  "signup": {
    [...]
    "metafields": {
      "color": "blue",
      "size": "large"
    }
  }
}
</code></pre>


h2(#signup-response). Signup Response

h3. Chargify Direct

See "Chargify Direct Response Parameters":/chargify-direct-introduction#response-parameters for details on Chargify Direct responses.

h3. JSON

The following is an example of a successful JSON @POST@ to @/signups@:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/8d9ed3261405b94b0e1f.js?file=signup-response.json"></script>

h4. Unsuccessful responses

Any errors will be returned within the @meta[errors]@ and @result[errors]@ objects. For example, when trying to create a new subscription without passing in the @payment_profile[expiration_month]@, the following is returned:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/8d9ed3261405b94b0e1f.js?file=signup-response-errors.json"></script>

Not passing in a @customer@ at all will yield the following response:

<script src="https://gist.github.com/8d9ed3261405b94b0e1f.js?file=signup-response-customer.json"></script>


