Updating a Subscription’s Payment Profile with new information, or creating a new Payment Profile for a Subscription where none currently exists.

h2. URI/Method

The @card_update@ endpoint is only available for HTML forms and does not respond to JSON API calls.

h2. Input Attributes

In order for your request to be processed, you must set up Secure Parameters.  See "Chargify Direct Introduction - Secure Parameters":chargify-direct-introduction#secure-parameters for detailed information on how to authenticate requests to this endpoint.

Note: the @subscription_id@ MUST be part of your @secure[data]@ parameter for the card update request to be processed.

* @payment_profile@
** @first_name@ First name on card or bank account
** @last_name@ Last name on card or bank account
** @card_number@ The full credit card number (string representation, i.e. "5424000000000015")
** @cvv@ (optional if the payment method is a credit card) The 3 or 4 digit card verification value.
** @expiration_month@  The 1- or 2-digit credit card expiration month, as an integer or string, i.e. "5"
** @expiration_year@  The 4-digit credit card expiration year, as an integer or string, i.e. "2012"
** @billing_address@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing street address (i.e. "123 Main St."). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_address_2@ (Optional) Second line of the customer's billing address i.e. "Apt. 100"
** @billing_city@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address city (i.e. "Boston"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_state@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address state (i.e. "MA"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_zip@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address zip code (i.e. "12345"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_country@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address country, preferably in "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2 format (i.e. "US"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway. Some gateways require country codes in a specific format. Please check your gateway's documentation. At this time, when creating a bank account, only @US@ is accepted._
** @bank_name@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The name of the bank where the customer's account resides
** @bank_routing_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The routing number of the bank
** @bank_account_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The customer's bank account number
** @bank_account_type@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) Either @checking@ or @savings@
** @bank_account_holder_type@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) Either @personal@ or @business@
** @payment_type@ Required for PayPal. Set to @paypal_account@.
** @payment_method_nonce@ Required for Paypal.
** @paypal_email@ Required for PayPal, but only used for display.

h2. Example Form

<pre><code><form method="post" action="https://api.chargify.com/api/v2/subscriptions/<subscription.id>/card_update">

  <!-- Secure parameters, for example: -->
  <input type="hidden" name="secure[data]" value="redirect_uri=http%3A%2F%2Fexample.com%2Fcallback&amp;subscription_id=12345"/>

  <!-- For brevity, this form contains no labels, only inputs -->
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[first_name]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[last_name]" />

  <!-- begin credit card fields -->
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[card_number]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[expiration_month]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[expiration_year]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[cvv]" />
  <!-- end credit card fields -->

  <!-- begin bank account fields -->
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[bank_name]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[bank_routing_number]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[bank_account_number]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[bank_account_type]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[bank_account_holder_type]" />
  <!-- end bank account fields -->

  <!-- begin paypal account fields -->
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[payment_method_nonce]" />
  <input type="text" name="payment_profile[paypal_email]" />
  <!-- end paypal account fields -->

  <input type="submit" value="Update" />
</form></code></pre>

h2. Output Attributes

When Chargify redirects back to your "redirect URI":chargify-direct-introduction#redirection-uri, it will include the following query-string parameters:

* @api_id@ The API ID that made the original request
* @timestamp@ The reflected or auto-generated timestamp
* @nonce@ The reflected or auto-generated nonce
* @status_code@ An HTTP status code that represents the status of the request
* @result_code@ A Chargify-specific result code, that is related to the status code but may give more specific information about the result of your request
* @call_id@ The ID for the stored representation of the original Call (form post). The Call may be fetched via the API for full response information (for both success and fail scenarios).
* @signature@ The HMAC-SHA1 hexdigest of the previous parameters, to verify their integrity

See "Response Signature":chargify-direct-introduction#response-parameters for more information about these attributes and what you can use them for.

See "Result Codes":chargify-direct-introduction#result-codes for more information about the result codes that Chargify returns.



