Renewal Preview is an object representing a subscription's next assessment. You can retrieve it to see a snapshot of how much your customer will be charged on their next renewal.

h2. URIs

|_. Resource/URI |_. POST |
| @/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/renewals/preview@ | "Create":#create new renewal preview |

h2. Input Attributes

The Chargify API allows you to preview a renewal by posting JSON or XML that includes:

* @subscription_id@: Integer, the id for the subscription that is to be previewed.

h2. Methods

_format_ may be either 'xml' or 'json'.

h3(#create). Create/Request

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/renewals/preview.json@
Method: @POST@ (with no side effects)
Required Parameters: susbcription_id
Response: A renewal preview object

h4. Output

<pre><code>
{
	"renewal_preview": {
		"next_assessment_at": "2016-10-04T14:00:00-04:00",
		"subtotal_in_cents": 8499,
		"total_tax_in_cents": 0,
		"total_discount_in_cents": 0,
		"total_in_cents": 8499,
		"existing_balance_in_cents": 15530,
		"total_amount_due_in_cents": 24029,
		"uncalculated_taxes": false,
		"line_items": [{
			"transaction_type": "charge",
			"kind": "baseline",
			"amount_in_cents": 3999,
			"memo": "Initial Fee without Trial (10/04/2016 - 10/05/2016)",
			"discount_amount_in_cents": 0,
			"taxable_amount_in_cents": 0
		}, {
			"transaction_type": "charge",
			"kind": "on_off_component",
			"amount_in_cents": 4500,
			"memo": "$45 component",
			"discount_amount_in_cents": 0,
			"taxable_amount_in_cents": 0
		}]
	}
}
</code></pre>

An array of allocation objects with the following fields:

| @next_assessment_at@ | The timestamp for the subscription's next renewal |
| @existing_balance_in_cents@ | An integer representing the amount of the subscription's current balance |
| @subtotal_in_cents@ | An integer representing the amount of the total pre-tax, pre-discount charges that will be assessed at the next renewal |
| @total_discount_in_cents@ | An integer representing the amount of the coupon discounts that will be applied to the next renewal |
| @total_tax_in_cents@ | An integer representing the total tax charges that will be assessed at the next renewal |
| @total_in_cents@ | An integer representing the total amount owed, less any discounts, that will be assessed at the next renewal |
| @total_amount_due_in_cents@ | An integer representing the existing_balance_in_cents plus the total_in_cents |
| @uncalculated_taxes@ | A boolean indicating whether or not additional taxes will be calculated at the time of renewal. This will be true if you are using "Avalara":/avalara-managed-sales-tax and the address of the subscription is in one of your defined taxable regions. |
| @line_items@| An array of objects representing the individual transactions that will be created at the next renewal |
