h2. URI/Method

|_. Resource/URI |_. GET |_. POST |_. PUT |_. DELETE |
| Payment Profiles<br/>@/payment_profiles@ | - | Create new payment profile | - | - |
| Payment Profiles<br/>@/payment_profiles/<x>@ | Read payment profile | - | Update payment profile | - |


h2. Payment Profile Input Attributes

* @payment_profile@
** @payment_type@ (Optional) Default is @credit_card@.  May be @bank_account@ or @credit_card@ or @paypal_account@.
** @customer_id@ (Required when creating a new payment profile) The Chargify customer id.
** @first_name@ First name on card or bank account.
** @last_name@ Last name on card or bank account.
** @full_number@ (Required when @payment_type@ is @credit_card@ unless you provide the @vault_token@) The full credit card number (string representation, i.e. "5424000000000015")
** @expiration_month@ (Required when @payment_type@ is @credit_card@ unless you provide the @vault_token@) The 1- or 2-digit credit card expiration month, as an integer or string, i.e. "5"
** @expiration_year@ (Required when @payment_type@ is @credit_card@ unless you provide the @vault_token@) The 4-digit credit card expiration year, as an integer or string, i.e. "2012"
** @cvv@ (Optional, may be required by your gateway settings) The 3- or 4-digit Card Verification Value. _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_address@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing street address (i.e. "123 Main St."). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_address_2@ (Optional) Second line of the customer's billing address i.e. "Apt. 100"
** @billing_city@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address city (i.e. "Boston"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_state@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address state (i.e. "MA"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_zip@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address zip code (i.e. "12345"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_country@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address country, preferably in [ISO 3166-1 alpha-2](http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2) format (i.e. "US"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway. Some gateways require country codes in a specific format. Please check your gateway's documentation. If creating an ACH subscription, only @US@ is supported at this time._
** @bank_name@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The name of the bank where the customer's account resides
** @bank_routing_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The routing number of the bank
** @bank_account_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The customer's bank account number
** @bank_account_type@ When @payment_type@ is @bank_account@, this defaults to @checking@ and cannot be changed
** @bank_account_holder_type@ When @payment_type@ is @bank_account@, this defaults to @personal@ and cannot be changed
** @payment_method_nonce@
** @paypal_email@
** @vault_token@ (Only allowed during the creation of a new payment profile) If you have an existing @vault_token@ from your gateway, you may associate it with this new payment profile.
** @current_vault@ (Required when you pass in a @vault_token@) One of @bogus@ (for testing), @authorizenet@, @trust_commerce@, @payment_express@, @beanstream@, @braintree1@ (deprecated), @braintree_blue@, @paypal@ (deprecated), @quickpay@, @eway@, @eway_rapid@ (deprecated), @eway_rapid_std@, @stripe@, @pin@, @wirecard@, @bpoint@, @firstdata@, @elavon@, @cybersource@, @paymill@, @litle@, @moneris@, @moneris_us@, @orbital@, @fusebox@, @authorizenet_cim@, or @chargify@.

h2. Methods

_format_ may be either 'xml' or 'json'.

h3(#read). Read

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/payment_profiles/<payment_profile_id>.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Required Parameters: @payment_profile_id@
Response: A single Payment Profile


**When the Payment Profile is a Credit Card**
<pre><code>"payment_profile": {
  "billing_address": "123 Main St.",
  "billing_address_2": "Apt 5C",
  "billing_city": "Penn Yan",
  "billing_country": "US",
  "billing_state": "NY",
  "billing_zip": "12345",
  "card_type": "bogus",
  "current_vault": "bogus",
  "customer_id": 52435,
  "customer_vault_token": null,
  "expiration_month": 12,
  "expiration_year": 2022,
  "first_name": "Marianne",
  "id": 542,
  "last_name": "Heidenreich",
  "masked_card_number": "XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1",
  "vault_token": "1",
  "payment_type": "credit_card"
}</code></pre>

**When the Payment Profile is a Bank Account**
<pre><code>"payment_profile": {
  "bank_account_holder_type": "personal",
  "bank_account_type": "checking",
  "bank_name": "Best Bank",
  "billing_address": "123 Main St.",
  "billing_address_2": "Apt 5C",
  "billing_city": "Penn Yan",
  "billing_country": "US",
  "billing_state": "NY",
  "billing_zip": "12345",
  "current_vault": "bogus",
  "customer_id": 7674,
  "customer_vault_token": null,
  "first_name": "Mark",
  "id": 543,
  "last_name": "Wahlberg",
  "masked_bank_account_number": "XXXXXXX1",
  "masked_bank_routing_number": "XXXXXXX1",
  "vault_token": "1",
  "payment_type": "bank_account"
}
</code></pre>

h3(#create). Create

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/payment_profiles.<format>@
Method: @POST@
Required Parameters: XML or JSON data, as specified by the required attributes
Response: The created payment profile (see output for "Read")

<pre><code>
  {
    "payment_profile": {
      "first_name": "Jessica",
      "last_name": "Test",
      "last_four" : 1111,
      "card_type": "visa",
      "expiration_month": 10,
      "expiration_year": 2018,
      "customer_id": 13733362,
      "current_vault": "bogus",
      "vault_token": "1",
      "billing_address": "123 Main St.",
      "billing_city": "Boston",
      "billing_state": "MA",
      "billing_zip": "02120",
      "billing_country": "US",
      "customer_vault_token": null,
      "billing_address_2": null,
      "payment_type": "credit_card"
    }
  }
</code></pre>

**Note**

Creating a new payment profile for a customer via the API **will not** make that payment profile current for any of the customer's subscriptions.  To make a change, please use one of the following methods:

* Change the "default payment profile":api-subscriptions#change-default-payment-profile" for the subscription.
* Select the Subscription in the Admin UI and choose Payment Details, then click the 'Make Active Payment Method' link next to the desired payment profile.

h3(#update). Update

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/payment_profiles/<payment_profile_id>.<format>@
Method: @PUT@
Required Parameters: XML or JSON data, as specified by the required attributes
Response: The updated payment profile (see output for "Read")

**Notes on updating payment profiles via the API**

* Merchants with Authorize.net or Stripe as their payment gateway can update their customer's credit cards without passing in the full credit card number and CVV.

* If you are using Authorize.net or Stripe, Chargify will ignore the credit card number and CVV when processing an update via the API, and attempt a partial update instead. If you wish to change the card number on a payment profile, you will need to create a new payment profile for the given customer.

* A payment profile cannot be updated with the attributes of another type of payment profile. For example, if the payment profile you are attempting to update is a credit card, you cannot pass in bank account attributes (like @bank_account_number@), and vice versa.

* Updating a payment profile directly will not trigger an attempt to capture a past-due balance.  If this is the intent, "update the card details via the subscription":/api-subscriptions#card-change instead.

* If you are using Authorize.net or Stripe, you may elect to manually trigger a "retry":/api-subscriptions#retry for a past due subscription after a partial update.

h3(#delete). Delete

See "Deleting a Payment Profile":api-subscriptions#delete-payment-profile in the Subscriptions API documentation.

