The Webhooks API allows you to view a list of all webhooks and to selectively resend individual or groups of webhooks.

h2. URIs

|_. Resource/URI |_. GET |_. POST |_. PUT |_. DELETE |
| @/webhooks@ | List webhooks | - | - | - |
| @/webhooks/replay@ | - | Resend webhooks | -  | - |

h2. Webhook Attributes

* @id@ The unique identifier for the webhooks (unique across all of Chargify).  This is not changed on a retry/replay of the same webhook, so it may be used to avoid duplicate action for the same event.
* @successful@ A boolean flag describing whether the webhook was accepted by the webhook endpoint *for the most recent attempt*. (Acceptance is defined by receiving a "200 OK" HTTP response within a reasonable timeframe, i.e. 15 seconds)
* @event@ A string describing which event type produced the given Webhook
* @body@ The data sent within the Webhook post
* @signature@ The calculated Webhook signature
* @created_at@ Timestamp indicating when the Webhook was created
* @accepted_at@ Timestamp indicating when the Webhook was accepted by the merchant endpoint.  When a webhook is explicitly replayed by the merchant, this value will be cleared until it is accepted again.
* @last_sent_at@ Timestamp indicating when the most recent attempt was made to send the Webhook
* @last_error_at@ Timestamp indicating when the last non-acceptance occurred.  If a webhooks is later resent and accepted, this field will be cleared.
* @last_error@ Text describing the status code and/or error from the last failed attempt to send the Webhook.  When a webhook is retried and accepted, this field will be cleared.

h2. Methods

h3. List Webhooks for a Site

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/webhooks.<format>@  
Method: @GET@  
Optional Parameters (via query string):

* @status@ A string indicating which type of Webhooks to return, either "successful" or "failed"
* @page@ and @per_page@ The page number and number of results used for pagination. By default results are paginated 20 per page.
* @since_date (format YYYY-MM-DD)@ Returns Webhooks with a created_at date greater than or equal to the one specified
* @until_date (format YYYY-MM-DD)@ Returns Webhooks with a created_at date less than or equal to the one specified
* @order@ The order in which the Webhooks are retured, either "newest_first" or "oldest_first"

Response: An array of Wehooks  

"XML example":#api-usage-xml-webhook-list  
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-webhook-list

h3(#api-usage-xml-webhook-list). XML List Webhooks for Site Example

<pre><code>Feature: Chargify API XML Webhooks listing
  In order to integrate an app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to be able to list my webhooks via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept xml responses
    And I have 2 webhooks

  Scenario: Retrieve a list of all webhooks for a site
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/webhooks.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be a xml array with 2 "webhook" elements
    And the response should be the xml:
    """
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <webhooks type="array">
      <webhook>
        <accepted_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</accepted_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <event>payment_success</event>
        <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
        <last_error nil="true"></last_error>
        <last_error_at type="datetime" nil="true"></last_error_at>
        <last_sent_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</last_sent_at>
        <body>`auto generated`</body>
        <signature>`auto generated`</signature>
        <successful type="boolean">true</successful>
      </webhook>
      <webhook>
        <accepted_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</accepted_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <event>payment_success</event>
        <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
        <last_error nil="true"></last_error>
        <last_error_at type="datetime" nil="true"></last_error_at>
        <last_sent_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</last_sent_at>
        <body>`auto generated`</body>
        <signature>`auto generated`</signature>
        <successful type="boolean">true</successful>
      </webhook>
    </webhooks>
    """
</code></pre>


h3(#api-usage-json-webhook-list). JSON List Webhooks for Site Example

<pre><code>Feature: Chargify API JSON Webhooks listing
  In order to integrate an app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to be able to list my webhooks via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept json responses
    And I have 2 webhooks

  Scenario: Retrieve a list of all webhooks for a site
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/webhooks.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be a json array with 2 "webhook" objects
    And the response should be the json:
    """
      [
        {"webhook":{
          "last_error_at":null,
          "accepted_at":`auto generated`,
          "last_sent_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "body":`auto generated`,
          "signature":`auto generated`,
          "successful":true,
          "last_error":null,
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "event":"payment_success"
        }},
        {"webhook":{
          "last_error_at":null,
          "accepted_at":`auto generated`,
          "last_sent_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "body":`auto generated`,
          "signature":`auto generated`,
          "successful":true,
          "last_error":null,
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "event":"payment_success"
        }}
      ]
    """
</code></pre>


h3. Replay Webhooks for a Site

Posting to the replay endpoint does not immediate resend the webhooks. They are added to the background job queue and should be resent momentarily.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/webhooks/replay.<format>@  
Method: @POST@  
Required Parameters:

* @ids@ An array of webhook ids to replay

Response: An "ok" status message

"XML example":#api-usage-xml-webhook-replay  
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-webhook-replay

h3(#api-usage-xml-webhook-replay). XML Resend Webhook Example

<pre><code>Feature: Chargify Webhooks Replay XML API
  In order to integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to replay webhooks via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I send and accept xml
    And I have 2 webhooks

  Scenario: Replay a webhook
    And I have this xml webhook data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <ids type="array">
        <id type="integer">`your value`</id>
        <id type="integer">`your value`</id>
      </ids>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/webhooks/replay.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <status>ok</status>
      """
</code></pre>

h3(#api-usage-json-webhook-replay). JSON Resend Webhook Example

<pre><code>Feature: Chargify Webhooks Replay JSON API
  In order to integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to replay webhooks via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I send and accept json
    And I have 2 webhooks

  Scenario: Replay a webhook
    And I have this json webhook data
      """
      {"ids":[`your value`,`your value`]}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/webhooks/replay.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"status":"ok"}
      """
</code></pre>
