Chargify Statements give you and your customers a breakdown of Subscription charges, payments, credits, and activity on a period-by-period basis.  A Statement is similar to an "Invoice" because it is marked as currently paid or unpaid.  Statements display all account activity for a specific usage period.

All of the statement attribute fields are returned from GET (read) operations. Note, all of these attributes are *read only*.

* @id@ The unique identifier for this statement within Chargify
* @subscription_id_@ The unique identifier of the subscription associated with the statement
* @opened_at@ The date that the statement was opened
* @closed_at@ The date that the statement was closed
* @settled_at@ The date that the statement was settled
* @text_view@ A text representation of the statement
* @basic_html_view@ A simple HTML representation of the statement
* @html_view@ A more robust HTML representation of the statement
* @future_payments@ A collection of payments from future statements that pay charges on this statement
* @starting_balance_in_cents@ The subscription's balance at the time the statement was opened
* @ending_balance_in_cents@ The subscription's balance at the time the statement was closed
* @customer_first_name@ The customer's first name
* @customer_last_name@ The customer's last name
* @customer_organization@ The customer's organization
* @customer_shipping_address@ The customer's shipping address
* @customer_shipping_address_2@ The customer's shipping address, line 2
* @customer_shipping_city@ The customer's shipping city
* @customer_shipping_state@ The customer's shipping state
* @customer_shipping_country@ The customer's shipping country
* @customer_shipping_zip@ The customer's shipping zip
* @customer_billing_address@ The customer's billing address
* @customer_billing_address_2@ The customer's billing address, line 2
* @customer_billing_city@ The customer's billing city
* @customer_billing_state@ The customer's billing state
* @customer_billing_country@ The customer's billing country
* @customer_billing_zip@ The customer's billing zip
* @transactions@ A collection of the transaction objects associated with the statement
* @events@ A collection of the event objects associated with the statement
* @created_at@ The creation date for this statement
* @updated_at@ The date of last update for this statement


h2. Methods

h3. List

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/statements.<format>@  
Method: @GET@
Optional Parameters: @page@
Response: An array of Statements

h3. Read/Show (via Chargify ID)

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/statements/<id>.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Required Parameters: @id@
Response: An single Statement

h2. Rendering Statements on Your Site

The Statements API offers three ways to easily render a statement on your site. You can include a text representation of the statement or one of two HTML views that can be styled to your liking.

* @text_view@ A text representation of the statement
* @basic_html_view@ A simple HTML representation of the statement
* @html_view@ A more robust HTML representation of the statement
