h2. Product Attributes

All of the product attribute fields are returned from GET (read) operations, and all are read only at this time.

* @price_in_cents@ The product price, in integer cents
* @name@ The product name
* @handle@ The product API handle
* @description@ The product description
* @product_family@ Nested attributes pertaining to the product family to which this product belongs
  * @id@ The product family id
  * @name@ The product family name
  * @handle@ The product family API handle
  * @accounting_code@ The product family accounting code (has no bearing in Chargify, may be used within your app)
  * @description@ The product family description
  * @url@ API endpoint for this product family
* @accounting_code@ The accounting code (has no bearing in Chargify, may be used within your app)
* @interval_unit@ A string representing the interval unit for this product, either @month@ or @day@
* @interval@ The numerical interval.  i.e. an @interval@ of '30' coupled with an @interval_unit@ of 'day' would mean this product would renew every 30 days
* @initial_charge_in_cents@ The up front charge you have specified.
* @trial_price_in_cents@ The price of the trial period for a subscription to this product, in integer cents.
* @trial_interval@ A numerical interval for the length of the trial period of a subscription to this product.  See the description of @interval@ for a description of how this value is coupled with an interval unit to calculate the full interval
* @trial_interval_unit@ A string representing the trial interval unit for this product, either @month@ or @day@
* @expiration_interval@ A numerical interval for the length a subscription to this product will run before it expires.   See the description of @interval@ for a description of how this value is coupled with an interval unit to calculate the full interval
* @expiration_interval_unit@ A string representing the trial interval unit for this product, either @month@ or @day@
* @return_url@ The URL a buyer is returned to after successful purchase.  See the section on "Return URLs and Parameters" [here](/product-options#return-url-and-parameters)
* @return_params@ The parameters string we will use in constructing your return URL.  See the section on "Return URLs and Parameters" "here":/product-options#return-url-and-parameters
* @require_credit_card@ Boolean
* @request_credit_card@ Boolean
* @created_at@ Timestamp indicating when this product was created
* @updated_at@ Timestamp indicating when this product was last updated
* @archived_at@ Timestamp indicating when this product was archived

h2. Methods

h3. List

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2/products.json@  
Method: @GET@

Response: An array of Products  

<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-http.txt"></script>
<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-oauth.txt"></script>
<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products.json"></script>

h3. Read/Show (via Chargify ID)

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2/products/<id>.json@  
Method: @GET@  
Required Parameters: @id@

Response: An single Product  

<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-1-http.txt"></script>
<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-1-oauth.txt"></script>
<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-1.json"></script>

h3. Read/Show All Products In Product Family

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2/products.json@  
Method: @GET@  
Required Parameters: @product_family_id@

Response: An array of Products in a Product Family

<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-product-family-http.txt"></script>
<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-product-family-oauth.txt"></script>
<script src="http://gist.github.com/6515075.js?file=api-v2-products-product-family.json"></script>
