h2. URI/Method

|_. Resource/URI |_. GET |_. POST |_. PUT |_. DELETE |
| Subscriptions<br/>@/subscriptions@ | List subscriptions | Create new subscription | - | - |
| Subscription<br/>@/subscriptions/<x>@ | Read subscription | - | Update subscription | Cancel subscription |

h2(#input). Subscription Input Attributes

When creating a subscription, you must specify a product and a customer.  Credit card details may be required, depending on the options for the Product being subscribed (see "Product Options":/product-options).

The product may be specified by @product_id@ or by @product_handle@ (API Handle).

An existing customer may be specified by a @customer_id@ (ID within Chargify) or a @customer_reference@ (unique value within your app that you have shared with Chargify via the @reference@ attribute on a customer).  A new customer may be created by providing @customer_attributes@.

* @product_handle@ The API Handle of the product for which you are creating a subscription. Required, unless a product_id is given instead.
* @product_id@ The Product ID of the product for which you are creating a subscription. The product ID is not currently published, so we recommend using the API Handle instead.
* @customer_id@ The ID of an existing customer within Chargify.  Required, unless a customer_reference or a set of customer_attributes is given.
* @customer_reference@ The reference value (provided by your app) of an existing customer within Chargify.  Required, unless a customer_id or a set of customer_attributes is given.
* @customer_attributes@
** @first_name@ The first name of the customer.  Required when creating a customer via attributes.
** @last_name@ The last name of the customer.  Required when creating a customer via attributes.
** @email@ The email address of the customer.  Required when creating a customer via attributes.
** @organization@ The organization/company of the customer.  Optional.
** @reference@ A customer "reference", or unique identifier from your app, stored in Chargify.  Can be used so that you may reference your customer's within Chargify using the same unique value you use in your application.  Optional.
** @address@ (Optional) The customer's shipping street address (i.e. "123 Main St.").
** @address_2@ (Optional) Second line of the customer's shipping address i.e. "Apt. 100"
** @city@ (Optional) The customer's shipping address city (i.e. "Boston").
** @state@ (Optional) The customer's shipping address state (i.e. "MA")
** @zip@ (Optional) The customer's shipping address zip code (i.e. "12345").
** @country@ (Optional) The customer shipping address country, perferably in "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2 format (i.e. "US").
** @phone@ (Optional) The phone number of the customer.
* @payment_profile_id@ The Payment Profile ID of an _existing_ card or bank account, which belongs to an _existing_ customer to use for payment for this subscription.  If the card, bank account, or customer does not exist already, or if you want to use a new (unstored) card or bank account for the subscription, use @payment_profile_attributes@ *instead* to create a new payment profile along with the subscription.  (This value is available on an existing subscription via the API as @credit_card@ > @id@ or @bank_account@ > @id@)
* @payment_profile_attributes@ (this may also be referred to as @credit_card_attributes@ or @bank_account_attributes@)
** @first_name@ (Optional) First name on card or bank account.  If omitted, the @first_name@ from customer attributes will be used.
** @last_name@ (Optional) Last name on card or bank account.  If omitted, the @last_name@ from customer attributes will be used.
** @full_number@ The full credit card number (string representation, i.e. "5424000000000015")
** @expiration_month@ (Optional when performing a Subscription Import via `vault_token`, required otherwise) The 1- or 2-digit credit card expiration month, as an integer or string, i.e. "5"
** @expiration_year@ (Optional when performing a Subscription Import via `vault_token`, required otherwise) The 4-digit credit card expiration year, as an integer or string, i.e. "2012"
** @cvv@ (Optional, may be required by your gateway settings) The 3- or 4-digit Card Verification Value. _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_address@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing street address (i.e. "123 Main St."). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_address_2@ (Optional) Second line of the customer's billing address i.e. "Apt. 100"
** @billing_city@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address city (i.e. "Boston"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_state@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address state (i.e. "MA"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_zip@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address zip code (i.e. "12345"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway_.
** @billing_country@ (Optional, may be required by your product configuration or gateway settings) The credit card or bank account billing address country, preferably in "ISO 3166-1 alpha-2":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_3166-1_alpha-2 format (i.e. "US"). _This value is merely passed through to the payment gateway. Some gateways require country codes in a specific format. Please check your gateway's documentation. If creating an ACH subscription, only @US@ is supported at this time._
** @vault_token@ (Optional, used only for Subscription Import) The "token" provided by your vault storage for an already stored payment profile
** @customer_vault_token@  (Optional, used only for Subscription Import) (only for Authorize.Net CIM storage) The customerProfileId for the owner of the customerPaymentProfileId provided as the vault_token
** @current_vault@  (Optional, used only for Subscription Import) The vault that stores the payment profile with the provided vault_token. May be @authorizenet@, @trust_commerce@, @payment_express@, @beanstream@, @braintree1@, @braintree_blue@, @paypal@, @quickpay@, @eway@, @samurai@, @stripe@, @pin@, @wirecard@, @bpoint@, @firstdata@, @elavon@, @cybersource@, @paymill@, @litle@ or @moneris@.
** @last_four@  (Optional, used only for Subscription Import) If you have the last 4 digits of the credit card number, you may supply them here so that we may create a masked card number (i.e. 'XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1234') for display in the UI
** @card_type@  (Optional, used only for Subscription Import) If you know the card type (i.e. Visa, MC, etc) you may supply it here so that we may display the card type in the UI. May be visa, master, discover, american_express, diners_club, jcb, switch, solo, dankort, maestro, forbrugsforeningen, or laser
** @bank_name@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The name of the bank where the customer's account resides
** @bank_routing_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The routing number of the bank
** @bank_account_number@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) The customer's bank account number
** @bank_account_type@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) Either @checking@ or @savings@
** @bank_account_holder_type@ (Required when creating a subscription with ACH) Either @personal@ or @business@
* @cancellation_message@ (Optional) Can be used when canceling a subscription (via the HTTP DELETE method) to make a note about the reason for cancellation.
* @next_billing_at@ (Optional) Set this attribute to a future date/time to sync imported subscriptions to your existing renewal schedule. See the notes on "Date/Time Format" below. If you provide a next_billing_at timestamp that is in the future, no trial or initial charges will be applied when you create the subscription. In fact, no payment will be captured at all. The first payment will be captured, according to the prices defined by the product, near the time specified by next_billing_at. If you do not provide a value for next_billing_at, any trial and/or initial charges will be assessed and charged at the time of subscription creation. If the card cannot be successfully charged, the subscription will not be created.  See further notes in the section on Importing Subscriptions.
* @expiration_tracks_next_billing_change@ (Optional, default @false@) When set to @true@, and when @next_billing_at@ is present, if the subscription expires, the @expires_at@ will be shifted by the same amount of time as the difference between the old and new "next billing" dates.
* @vat_number@ (Optional) Supplying the VAT number allows EU customer's to opt-out of the Value Added Tax assuming the merchant address and customer billing address are not within the same EU country.
* @coupon_code@ (Optional) The coupon code of the coupon to apply (See the "coupon docs":/api-coupons#api-subscription-create-with-coupon)
* @payment_collection_method@ (Optional) The type of payment collection to be used in the subscription. May be automatic, or invoice.
* @agreement_terms@ (Optional but recommended when creating a subscription with ACH) The ACH agreements terms.
* @product_change_delayed@ (Optional, used only for "Delayed Product Change":#delayed-product-change) When set to @true@, indicates that a changed value for @product_handle@ should schedule the product change to the next subscription renewal.
* @calendar_billing@ (optional, see "Calendar Billing":/billing-dates#calendar-billing for more details). Cannot be used when also specifying @next_billing_at@
** @snap_day@ A value between 1 and 28, or "end"
* @metafields@ (Optional) A set of key/value pairs representing custom fields and their values. Metafields will be created "on-the-fly" in your site for a given key, if they have not been created yet.
* @ref@ A valid referral code. (optional, see "Referrals":/referrals for more details). If supplied, must be valid, or else subscription creation will fail.
* @components@ (Optional) An array of component ids and quantities to be added to the subscription.  See examples below and "Product Components":/product-components for more information.
** @component_id@
** @allocated_quantity@ or @usage_balance@ or @enabled@

h2(#output). Subscription Output Attributes

The following attributes are returned on a subscription read/list operation.

* @activated_at@ (Read Only) Timestamp for when the subscription began (i.e. when it came out of trial, or when it began in the case of no trial)
* @balance_in_cents@ Gives the current outstanding subscription balance in the number of cents.
* @cancel_at_end_of_period@ Whether or not the subscription will (or has) canceled at the end of the period.
* @canceled_at@ The timestamp of the most recent cancellation
* @cancellation_message@ Seller-provided reason for, or note about, the cancellation.
* @coupon_code@ The coupon code of the coupon currently applied to the subscription
* @created_at@ The creation date for this subscription
* @credit_card@ Nested credit card attributes, if payment profile is a @credit_card@
** @billing_address@ The current billing street address for the card
** @billing_address_2@ The current billing street address, second line, for the card
** @billing_city@ The current billing address city for the card
** @billing_state@ The current billing address state for the card
** @billing_zip@ The current billing address zip code for the card
** @billing_country@ The current billing address country for the card
** @card_type@ The type of card used (bogus, visa, master, discover, american_express, diners_club, jcb, switch, solo, dankort, maestro, forbrugsforeningen, or laser)
** @current_vault@ The vault that stores the payment profile with the provided @vault_token@.  May be @authorizenet@, @trust_commerce@, @payment_express@, @beanstream@, @braintree1@, @braintree_blue@, @paypal@, @quickpay@, @eway@, @samurai@, @stripe@, or @wirecard@
** @customer_id@ The Chargify-assigned @id@ for the customer record to which the card belongs
** @customer_vault_token@ (only for Authorize.Net CIM storage): the @customerProfileId@ for the owner of the @customerPaymentProfileId@ provided as the @vault_token@
** @expiration_month@ An integer representing the expiration month of the card(1 - 12)
** @expiration_year@ An integer representing the 4-digit expiration year of the card(i.e. '2012')
** @id@ The Chargify-assigned ID of the stored card.  This value can be used as an input to @payment_profile_id@ when creating a subscription, in order to re-use a stored payment profile _for the same customer_
** @first_name@ The first name of the card holder
** @last_name@ The last name of the card holder
** @masked_card_number@ A string representation of the credit card number with all but the last 4 digits masked with X's (i.e. 'XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1234')
** @vault_token@ The "token" provided by your vault storage for an already stored payment profile
* @bank_account@ Nested bank account attributes, if payment profile is a @bank_account@
** @bank_account_holder_type@ Either @business@ or @personal@
** @bank_account_type@ Either @checking@ or @savings@
** @bank_name@ The bank where the account resides
** @billing_address@ The current billing street address for the bank account
** @billing_address_2@ The current billing street address, second line, for the bank account
** @billing_city@ The current billing address city for the bank account
** @billing_state@ The current billing address state for the bank account
** @billing_zip@ The current billing address zip code for the bank account
** @billing_country@ The current billing address country for the bank account
** @current_vault@ The vault that stores the payment profile with the provided @vault_token@. As of this time, will only be @authorizenet@
** @customer_id@ The Chargify-assigned @id@ for the customer record to which the bank account belongs
** @customer_vault_token@ (only for Authorize.Net CIM storage): the @customerProfileId@ for the owner of the @customerPaymentProfileId@ provided as the @vault_token@
** @first_name@ The first name of the bank account holder
** @last_name@ The last name of the bank account holder
** @id@ The Chargify-assigned ID of the stored bank account.  This value can be used as an input to @payment_profile_id@ when creating a subscription, in order to re-use a stored payment profile _for the same customer_
** @masked_bank_account_number@ A string representation of the stored bank account number with all but the last 4 digits marked with X's (i.e. 'XXXXXXX1111')
** @masked_bank_routing_number@ A string representation of the stored bank routing number with all but the last 4 digits marked with X's (i.e. 'XXXXXXX1111')
** @payment_type@ Will be @bank_account@
** @vault_token@ The "token" provided by your vault storage for an already stored payment profile
* @current_period_started_at@ Timestamp relating to the start of the current (recurring) period
* @current_period_ends_at@ Timestamp relating to the end of the current (recurring) period (i.e. when the next regularly scheduled attempted charge will occur)
* @customer@ For customer attributes, see "Customers API":/api-customers
* @delayed_cancel_at@ Timestamp for when the subscription is currently set to cancel.
* @expires_at@ Timestamp giving the expiration date of this subscription (if any)
* @id@ The subscription unique id within Chargify.
* @next_assessment_at@ Timestamp that indicates when capture of payment will be tried or retried.  This value will usually track the @current_period_ends_at@, but will diverge if a renewal payment fails and must be retried.  In that case, the @current_period_ends_at@ will advance to the end of the next period (time doesn't stop because a payment was missed) but the @next_assessment_at@ will be scheduled for the auto-retry time (i.e. 24 hours in the future, in some cases)
* @payment_collection_method@ The type of payment collection to be used in the subscription. May be automatic, or invoice.
* @previous_state@ *Only valid for webhook payloads* The previous state for webhooks that have indicated a change in state.  For normal API calls, this will always be the same as the @state@ (current state)
* @product@ For product attributes, see "Products API":/api-products
* @product_price_in_cents@ (Added Nov 5 2013) The recurring amount of the product (and version) currently subscribed. NOTE: this may differ from the current price of the product, if you've changed the price of the product but haven't moved this subscription to a newer version.
* @product_version_number@ (Added Nov 5 2013) The version of the product currently subscribed. NOTE: we have not exposed versions (yet) elsewhere in the API, but if you change the price of your product the versions will increment and existing subscriptions will remain on prior versions (by default, to support price grandfathering).
* @signup_payment_id@ The ID of the transaction that generated the revenue
* @signup_revenue@ The revenue, formatted as a string of decimal separated dollars and cents, from the subscription signup ($50.00 would be formatted as 50.00)
* @state@ The current state of the subscription. Please see the documentation for "Subscription States":/subscription-states
* @total_revenue_in_cents@ Gives the total revenue from the subscription in the number of cents.
* @trial_started_at@ Timestamp for when the trial period (if any) began
* @trial_ended_at@ Timestamp for when the trial period (if any) ended
* @updated_at@ The date of last update for this subscription
* @next_product_id@ If a "delayed product change":#delayed-product-change is scheduled, the ID of the product that the subscription will be changed to at the next renewal.


h2(#methods). Methods

_format_ may be either 'xml' or 'json'.

h3(#list). List

Listing subscriptions is paginated, 20 at a time by default with an allowed max of 200 per page.  They are listed most recently created first.

You may control pagination using the @page@ and/or @per_page@ parameters.

Listing subscriptions may be filtered by using the @state@, @product@, (and optionally @product_revision_number@,) and/or @coupon@ parameters.

Listing subscriptions may also be filtered by supplying a @date_field@ along with a @start_date@ and @end_date@ and (optionally) the @direction@.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Optional Parameters:
@page@: an integer value which specifies which page of results to fetch, starting at 1.  Fetching successively higher page numbers will return additional results, until there are no more results to return (in which case an empty result set will be returned).  Defaults to 1.
@per_page@: how many records to fetch in each request, defaults to 20.  The maximum allowed is 200 - any @per_page@ value over 200 will be changed to 200.
@state@: The current state of the subscription. Please see the documentation for "Subscription States":/subscription-states.
@product@: The product id of the subscription. (Note that the product handle cannot be used.)
@product_revision_number@: The revision number of the product.  If supplied, @product@ is required.  Please note that revision is an internal, zero-based identifier, and differs from the Version number displayed in the Admin UI.  Example: To filter for version "v2", supply a @product_revision_number@ of 1.
@coupon@: The numeric id of the coupon currently applied to the subscription. (This can be found in the URL when editing a coupon.  Note that the coupon code cannot be used.)
@date_field@: The date field to filter on, such as @canceled_at@ or @updated_at@.  See the "Subscription Output Attributes":#output for a full list.
@start_date@: The start date with which to filter the @date_field@.  See "Date Format":#date-format for allowable formats.
@end_date@: The end date with which to to filter the @date_field@.  See "Date Format":#date-format for allowable formats.

Response: An array of Subscriptions
**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-list
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-list

h3(#list-by-customer). List By Customer

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/customers/<customer_id>/subscriptions.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Required Parameters, @customer_id@
Response: An array of Subscriptions
**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-list
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-list


h3(#read). Read

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>.<format>@
Method: @GET@
Required Parameters: @subscription_id@
Response: An single Subscription
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-read
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-read


h3(#create). Create

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions.<format>@
Method: @POST@
Required Parameters: XML or JSON data, as specified by the required attributes
Response: The created subscription
**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-create
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-create

h3(#import). Importing Subscriptions

Subscriptions can be "imported" via the API to handle the following scenarios:

* You already have existing subscriptions with specific renewal dates that you would like to import to Chargify
* You already have credit cards stored in your provider's vault and you would like to create subscriptions using those tokens

Before importing, you should have already set up your products to match your offerings.  Then, you can create Subscriptions via the API just like you normally would, but using a few special attributes.

The following _additions_ to the subscription input attributes make imports possible.

* @next_billing_at@: set this attribute to a future date/time to sync imported subscriptions to your existing renewal schedule.  See the notes on "Date/Time Format" below.  If you provide a @next_billing_at@ timestamp that is in the future, no trial or initial charges will be applied when you create the subscription.  In fact, no payment will be captured at all.  The first payment will be captured, according to the prices defined by the product, near the time specified by @next_billing_at@.  If you do not provide a value for @next_billing_at@, any trial and/or initial charges will be assessed and charged at the time of subscription creation.  If the card cannot be successfully charged, the subscription will not be created.
* @payment_profile_attributes@
  * @vault_token@: the "token" provided by your vault storage for an already stored payment profile
  * @customer_vault_token@ (only for Authorize.Net CIM storage): the @customerProfileId@ for the owner of the @customerPaymentProfileId@ provided as the @vault_token@
  * @current_vault@: the vault that stores the payment profile with the provided @vault_token@.  May be @authorizenet@, @trust_commerce@, @payment_express@, @beanstream@, @braintree1@, @braintree_blue@ (see "additional notes on Braintree Blue":#braintree-blue-imports, below), @paypal@, @quickpay@, @eway@, @samurai@, @stripe@, or @wirecard@
  * @last_four@ (optional): If you have the last 4 digits of the credit card number, you may supply them here so that we may create a masked card number (i.e. 'XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1234') for display in the UI
  * @card_type@ (optional): If you know the card type (i.e. Visa, MC, etc) you may supply it here so that we may display the card type in the UI.  May be @visa@, @master@, @discover@, @american_express@, @diners_club@, @jcb@, @switch@, @solo@, @dankort@, @maestro@, @forbrugsforeningen@, or @laser@

*Note:* @payment_profile_attributes@ is the same thing as @credit_card_attributes@ used elsewhere in the documentation.  The two keys are interchangeable, pick one to use but not both.  Most new documentation will refer to @payment_profile_attributes@

h4(#braintree-blue-imports). Braintree Blue (Braintree v2) Imports

Braintree Blue is Braintree's newer (version 2) API.  For this gateway, please provide the @vault_token@ parameter with the value from Braintree's "Customer ID" rather than the "Payment Profile Token".  At this time we do not use @current_vault_token@ with the Braintree Blue gateway.

An implication of this is that we only support a single payment profile per Braintree Customer.  We may change this in the future to use both the Customer ID (in @customer_vault_token@) **and** the Payment Method Token (in @vault_token@).  When we do this, the change will be transparent to users and merchants of this gateway.  _However_, it will change how imports work.  So if you have previously done an import in the past and want to re-use the code, please check this section or watch our changelogs to see if this has changed.

h4(#webhooks-during-import). Webhooks During Import

If no @next_billing_at@ is provided, webhooks will be fired as normal.  If you do set a future @next_billing_at@, only a subset of the webhooks are fired when the subscription is created.  Keep reading for more information.

h5. Successful creation, no @next_billing_at@ provided

* @signup_success@
* @payment_success@

h5. Unsuccessful creation (card can't be charged), no @next_billing_at@ provided

* @signup_failure@

h5. Successful creation, @next_billing_at@ provided

Webhooks fired at the time of the API call:

* @signup_success@
* @billing_date_change@

Webhooks fired when @next_billing_at@ is reached:

* @renewal_success@ or @renewal_failure@
* @payment_success@ or @payment_failure@

h4(#date-format). Date and Time Formats

We will attempt to parse any string you send as the value of @next_billing_at@ in to a date or time.  For best results, use a known format like described in "Date and Time Specification" of "RFC 2822":http://tools.ietf.org/html/rfc2822#section-3.3 or "ISO 8601":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/ISO_8601 .

The following are all equivalent and will work as input to @next_billing_at@:

@Aug 06 11:34:00 -0400 2010@
@Aug 06 11:34 -0400 2010@
@2010-08-06T11:34:00-04:00@
@8/6/2010 11:34:00 EDT@
@8/6/2010 8:34:00 PDT@
@2010-08-06T15:34:00Z@

You may also pass just a date, in which case we will assume the time to be midnight

@2010-08-06@

h4(#full-example). Full Example

Here is a sample JSON document that you might @POST@ to @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions.json@ to import a subscription:

<pre><code>
{"subscription":{
  "product_handle":"basic",
  "next_billing_at":"2010-08-29T12:00:00-04:00",
  "customer_attributes":{
    "first_name":"John",
    "last_name":"Doe",
    "email":"john.doe@example.com",
    "reference":"123",
    "organization":"Acme Widgets"
  },
  "payment_profile_attributes":{
    "vault_token":"12345",
    "customer_vault_token":"67890",
    "current_vault":"authorizenet",
    "expiration_year":"2020",
    "expiration_month":"12",
    "card_type":"visa",
    "last_four":"1111"
  }}}
</code></pre>

Components may also be included in the import.  See "Product Components":/product-components for more information.

h3(#update). Update

The update action currently allows you to edit the attributes of the customer, payment profile (credit card), or subscribed product (although no proration or reset options are offered at this time).

h4(#card-change). Card Change

This is how you would change the card that somebody uses for their subscription.  You can also use this method to simply change the expiration date of the card.

Note that partial card updates for Authorize.Net are not allowed via this endpoint.  See "Payment Profiles Update":/api-payment-profiles#update instead

You also use this method to change the subscription to a different product by setting a new value for @product_handle@.  A product change can be done in two different ways:

h4(#product-change). Product Change

This method merely changes the product, and *the new payment amount is calculated and charged at the normal start of the next period*.  To perform a Product Change, simply set the @product_handle@ attribute with the handle of a different product from the same site as the subscription.  Note that no proration or period reset is initiated when you change the product using this method.  If you desire prorated upgrades and downgrades instead, please see the "docs on upgrades/downgrades":/upgrades-downgrades and "the Migrations API":/api-migrations.

h4(#delayed-product-change). Delayed Product Change

This method schedules the product change to happen automatically at the subscription's next renewal date. To perform a Delayed Product Change, set the @product_handle@ attribute as you would in a regular Product Change, but also set the @product_change_delayed@ attribute to @true@. No proration applies in this case.

h4(#cancel-delayed-product-change). Cancel Delayed Product Change

In order to cancel a delayed product change, set @next_product_id@ to an empty string.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>.<format>@
Method: @PUT@
Required Parameters: None
Optional Parameters: XML or JSON data with updated values for @customer_attributes@ or @credit_card_attributes@
Response: The updated subscription
**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-update
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-update


h3(#cancel). Delete/Cancel

The delete action causes the cancellation of a subscription, i.e. it sets the subscription state to @canceled@.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>.<format>@
Method: @DELETE@
Required Parameters: None
Optional Parameters: XML or JSON data with a @cancellation_message@ note that will be stored with the subscription.
Response: 200 OK on success
**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-delete
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-delete

h3(#delayed). Delayed Cancel

Chargify offers the ability to cancel a subscription at the end of the current period (as set by its current product. Setting the subscription to cancel at the end of the period sets the @cancel_at_end_of_period@ to @true@. Note, that you cannot set @cancel_at_end_of_period@ at subscription creation.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>.<format>@
Method: @PUT@
Required Parameters: None
Optional Parameters: XML or JSON data with @cancel_at_end_of_period@ set to true or false.
Response: The updated subscription
**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-delayed-cancel
"JSON example":#api-usage-json-subscriptions-delayed-cancel

h3(#reactivate). Reactivate

Chargify offers the ability to reactivate a previously canceled subscription. For details on how reactivation works, and how to reactivate subscriptions through the Admin Interface, see "Reactivation":reactivation

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/reactivate.xml@
Method: @PUT@
Required Parameters: none
Optional Parameters:
@include_trial@ - Boolean, default 0. If 1 is sent the reactivated subscription will include a trial if one is available. If 0 is sent, the trial period will be ignored.  This parameter should be sent in a query string, and does not need to be nested inside a @subscription@ object
@preserve_balance@ - Boolean, default '0'. If '1' is passed, the existing subscription balance will NOT be cleared/reset before adding the additional reactivation charges.
@coupon_code@ - The coupon code to be applied during reactivation.
Response: The updated subscription

"XML example":#api-react-xml
"JSON example":#api-react-json

h3(#retry). Retry

Chargify offers the ability to retry collecting the balance due on a past due subscription without waiting for the next scheduled attempt.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/retry.json@
Method: @PUT@
Required Parameters: none
Optional Parameters: none
Response: 422 Unprocessable Entity and error message or 200 OK and updated subscription

h3(#reset-balance). Reset Balance

Chargify offers the ability to easily reset the balance of a subscription to zero. If a subscription has a positive balance, this API call will issue a credit to the subscription for the outstanding balance. This is particularly helpful if you want to reactivate a canceled subscription without charging the customer for their previously owed balance.

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/reset_balance.xml@
Method: PUT
Required Parameters: none
Response: The updated subscription

**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-reset-balance-xml
"JSON example":#api-reset-balance-json

h3(#delete-payment-profile). Delete Payment Profile

This will delete a payment profile belonging to the customer on the subscription.

Please note that if the customer has multiple subscriptions, the payment profile will be removed from _all_ of them.

Please note that if you delete the _default_ payment profile for a subscription, there is currently no way to designate a different payment profile as the default via the API.  You may want to "Update":#update the subscription instead.

To establish a new default payment profile after it has been deleted, either prompt the user to enter a card in the billing portal or on the self-service page, or visit the Payment Details tab on the subscription in the Admin UI and use the "Add New Credit Card" or "Make Active Payment Method" link, (depending on whether there are other cards present.)

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/subscriptions/<subscription_id>/payment_profiles/<payment_profile_id>@
Method: DELETE
Required Parameters: none
Response:  204 No Content on success

**Usage Examples:**
"XML example":#api-delete-payment-profile-xml
"JSON example":#api-delete-payment-profile-json


h2(#usage). Usage Examples

h3(#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-list). XML List Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions List XML API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to interact with my subscriptions via the Chargify API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept xml responses


  Scenario: Retrieve a customer's subscriptions
    Given I have a customer with these attributes
      | id             | first_name | last_name | email           |
      | [@customer.id] | Joe        | Blow      | joe@example.com |
    And the customer has 2 subscriptions
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/customers/[@customer.id]/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be a "subscriptions" array with 2 "subscription" elements
</code></pre>

Back to "List":#list

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-list). JSON List Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions List JSON API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to interact with my subscriptions via the Chargify API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept json responses


  Scenario: Retrieve a customer's subscriptions
    Given I have a customer with these attributes
      | id             | first_name | last_name | email           |
      | [@customer.id] | Joe        | Blow      | joe@example.com |
    And the customer has 2 subscriptions
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/customers/[@customer.id]/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be a json array with 2 "subscription" objects
</code></pre>

Back to "List":#list

h3(#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-read). XML Read Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Read/Show/Lookup XML API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to read/show/lookup a subscription via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept xml responses

  Scenario: Retrieve a subscription via ID
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a GET request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <id type="integer">[@subscription.id]</id>
        <state>active</state>
        <previous_state>`auto generated`</previous_state>
        <balance_in_cents type="integer">0</balance_in_cents>
        <total_revenue_in_cents type="integer">1000</total_revenue_in_cents>
        <product_price_in_cents type="integer">`your value`</product_price_in_cents>
        <product_version_number type="integer">1</product_version_number>
        <current_period_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_started_at>
        <current_period_ends_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_ends_at>
        <next_assessment_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</next_assessment_at>
        <trial_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_started_at>
        <trial_ended_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_ended_at>
        <activated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</activated_at>
        <expires_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</expires_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        <canceled_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</canceled_at>
        <cancellation_message nil="true"></cancellation_message>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period type="boolean">false</cancel_at_end_of_period>
        <delayed_cancel_at nil="true"></delayed_cancel_at>
        <coupon_code nil="true"></coupon_code>
        <signup_payment_id type="integer">`auto generated`</signup_payment_id>
        <signup_revenue>`your value`</signup_revenue>
        <payment_collection_method>automatic</payment_collection_method>
        <current_billing_amount_in_cents>1000</current_billing_amount_in_cents>
        <customer>
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <email>`your value`</email>
          <organization>`your value`</organization>
          <reference>`your value`</reference>
          <address>`your value`</address>
          <address_2>`your value`</address_2>
          <city>`your value`</city>
          <state>`your value`</state>
          <zip>`your value`</zip>
          <country>`your value`</country>
          <phone>`your value`</phone>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at>`auto generated`</updated_at>
        </customer>
        <product>
          <id>`auto generated`</id>
          <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
          <handle>`your value`</handle>
          <description>`your value`</description>
          <interval>`your value`</interval>
          <interval_unit>`your value`</interval_unit>
          <name>`your value`</name>
          <price_in_cents>`your value`</price_in_cents>
          <initial_charge_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></initial_charge_in_cents>
          <trial_interval type="integer" nil="true"></trial_interval>
          <trial_interval_unit nil="true"></trial_interval_unit>
          <trial_price_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></trial_price_in_cents>
          <expiration_interval type="integer">`your value`</expiration_interval>
          <expiration_interval_unit>`your value`</expiration_interval_unit>
          <archived_at type="datetime" nil="true"></archived_at>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
          <request_credit_card type="boolean">true</request_credit_card>
          <require_credit_card type="boolean">true</require_credit_card>
          <return_url nil="true"></return_url>
          <update_return_url nil="true"></update_return_url>
          <return_params nil="true"></return_params>
          <product_family>
            <id>`auto generated`</id>
            <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
            <handle>`your value`</handle>
            <name>`your value`</name>
            <description>`your value`</description>
          </product_family>
        </product>
        <credit_card type="PaymentProfile">
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <card_type>`auto generated`</card_type>
          <expiration_month>`your value`</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year type="integer">`your value`</expiration_year>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <masked_card_number>`auto generated`</masked_card_number>
          <billing_address>`your value`</billing_address>
          <billing_address_2>`your value`</billing_address_2>
          <billing_city>`your value`</billing_city>
          <billing_state>`your value`</billing_state>
          <billing_zip>`your value`</billing_zip>
          <billing_country>`your value`</billing_country>
          <current_vault type="integer">`your value`</current_vault>
          <vault_token type="integer">`your value`</vault_token>
          <customer_vault_token>`your value`</customer_vault_token>
          <customer_id>`auto generated`</customer_id>
        </credit_card>
      </subscription>
      """

  Scenario: Attempt to retrieve a subscription that doesn't exist
    Given I have 0 subscriptions
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/9999.xml
    Then the response status should be "404 Not Found"
</code></pre>

Back to "Read":#read

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-read). JSON Read Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Read/Show/Lookup JSON API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to read/show/lookup a subscription via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept json responses

  Scenario: Retrieve a subscription via ID
    Given I have an active subscription
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":[@subscription.id],
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":0,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":1000,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "current_billing_amount_in_cents": "1000",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "email":`your value`,
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":`your value`,
          "address_2":`your value`,
          "city":`your value`,
          "state":`auto generated`,
          "zip":`auto generated`,
          "country":`auto generated`,
          "phone":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          }
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "masked_card_number":`your value`,
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":`your value`,
          "expiration_year":`your value`,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """

  Scenario: Attempt to retrieve a subscription that doesn't exist
    Given I have 0 subscriptions
    When I send a GET request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/9999.json
    Then the response status should be "404 Not Found"
</code></pre>

Back to "Read":#read

h3(#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-create). XML Create Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Create XML API
  In order to integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to create a subscription via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user for site with subdomain "acme"
    And I send and accept xml

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with customer data, credit card data, and a product handle
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <subscription>
          <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
          <customer_attributes>
            <first_name>Joe</first_name>
            <last_name>Blow</last_name>
            <email>joe@example.com</email>
          </customer_attributes>
          <credit_card_attributes>
            <full_number>1</full_number>
            <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
            <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
          </credit_card_attributes>
        </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
        <state>active</state>
        <previous_state>`auto generated`</previous_state>
        <balance_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</balance_in_cents>
        <total_revenue_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</total_revenue_in_cents>
        <product_price_in_cents type="integer">`your value`</product_price_in_cents>
        <product_version_number type="integer">1</product_version_number>
        <current_period_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_started_at>
        <current_period_ends_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_ends_at>
        <next_assessment_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</next_assessment_at>
        <trial_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_started_at>
        <trial_ended_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_ended_at>
        <activated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</activated_at>
        <expires_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</expires_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        <canceled_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</canceled_at>
        <cancellation_message nil="true"></cancellation_message>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period type="boolean">false</cancel_at_end_of_period>
        <delayed_cancel_at nil="true"></delayed_cancel_at>
        <coupon_code nil="true"></coupon_code>
        <signup_payment_id type="integer">`auto generated`</signup_payment_id>
        <signup_revenue>`your value`</signup_revenue>
        <payment_collection_method>automatic</payment_collection_method>
        <customer>
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <first_name>Joe</first_name>
          <last_name>Blow</last_name>
          <email>joe@example.com</email>
          <organization>`your value`</organization>
          <reference>`your value`</reference>
          <address>`your value`</address>
          <address_2>`your value`</address_2>
          <city>`your value`</city>
          <state>`your value`</state>
          <zip>`your value`</zip>
          <country>`your value`</country>
          <phone>`your value`</phone>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        </customer>
        <product>
          <id>`auto generated`</id>
          <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
          <handle>[@product.handle]</handle>
          <description>`your value`</description>
          <interval>`your value`</interval>
          <interval_unit>`your value`</interval_unit>
          <name>`your value`</name>
          <price_in_cents>`your value`</price_in_cents>
          <initial_charge_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></initial_charge_in_cents>
          <trial_interval type="integer" nil="true"></trial_interval>
          <trial_interval_unit nil="true"></trial_interval_unit>
          <trial_price_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></trial_price_in_cents>
          <expiration_interval type="integer">`your value`</expiration_interval>
          <expiration_interval_unit>`your value`</expiration_interval_unit>
          <archived_at type="datetime" nil="true"></archived_at>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
          <request_credit_card type="boolean">true</request_credit_card>
          <require_credit_card type="boolean">true</require_credit_card>
          <return_url nil="true"></return_url>
          <update_return_url nil="true"></update_return_url>
          <return_params nil="true"></return_params>
          <product_family>
            <id>`auto generated`</id>
            <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
            <handle>`your value`</handle>
            <name>`your value`</name>
            <description>`your value`</description>
          </product_family>
        </product>
        <credit_card type="PaymentProfile">
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <card_type>bogus</card_type>
          <expiration_month type="integer">10</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year type="integer">2020</expiration_year>
          <first_name>Joe</first_name>
          <last_name>Blow</last_name>
          <masked_card_number>XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1</masked_card_number>
          <billing_address>`your value`</billing_address>
          <billing_address_2>`your value`</billing_address_2>
          <billing_city>`your value`</billing_city>
          <billing_state>`your value`</billing_state>
          <billing_zip>`your value`</billing_zip>
          <billing_country>`your value`</billing_country>
          <current_vault type="integer">`your value`</current_vault>
          <vault_token type="integer">`your value`</vault_token>
          <customer_vault_token>`your value`</customer_vault_token>
          <customer_id>`auto generated`</customer_id>
        </credit_card>
      </subscription>
      """
    And the subscription's channel attribute should be set to "api"

  Scenario: Create a subscription using an existing customer ID
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have 1 customer
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <subscription>
          <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
          <customer_id type="integer">[@customer.id]</customer_id>
          <credit_card_attributes>
            <full_number>1</full_number>
            <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
            <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
          </credit_card_attributes>
        </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"


  Scenario: Create a subscription using an existing customer reference
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have a customer with these attributes
      | reference | first_name | last_name | email           |
      | 7890      | Joe        | Blow      | joe@example.com |
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <subscription>
          <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
          <customer_reference>[@customer.reference]</customer_reference>
          <credit_card_attributes>
            <full_number>1</full_number>
            <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
            <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
          </credit_card_attributes>
        </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"


  Scenario: Creating a subscription fails due to missing or invalid attributes
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <subscription>
          <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
          <customer_attributes>
            <first_name>Joe</first_name>
          </customer_attributes>
          <credit_card_attributes>
            <full_number>1</full_number>
          </credit_card_attributes>
        </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <errors>
        <error>Credit card expiration year: cannot be blank.</error>
        <error>Last name: cannot be blank.</error>
        <error>Credit card expiration month: cannot be blank.</error>
        <error>Email address: cannot be blank.</error>
      </errors>
      """


  Scenario: Creating a subscription fails due to a missing product
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <subscription>
          <product_handle>this-does-not-exist</product_handle>
          <customer_attributes>
            <first_name>Joe</first_name>
            <last_name>Blow</last_name>
            <email>joe@example.com</email>
          </customer_attributes>
          <credit_card_attributes>
            <full_number>1</full_number>
            <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
            <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
          </credit_card_attributes>
        </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <errors>
        <error>Product with API Handle 'this-does-not-exist' does not exist for this site.</error>
      </errors>
      """

  Scenario: Creating a subscription fails if only a 2 digit date expiration year is passed
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
        <customer_attributes>
          <first_name>Joe</first_name>
          <last_name>Blow</last_name>
          <email>joe@example.com</email>
        </customer_attributes>
        <credit_card_attributes>
          <full_number>1</full_number>
          <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year>2000</expiration_year>
        </credit_card_attributes>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <errors>
        <error>Credit card: cannot be expired.</error>
      </errors>
      """

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with a coupon
    Given I have 1 product
    And I have a $5 off coupon with the code "EARLYBIRD"
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
        <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
        <subscription>
          <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
          <customer_attributes>
            <first_name>Joe</first_name>
            <last_name>Blow</last_name>
            <email>joe@example.com</email>
          </customer_attributes>
          <credit_card_attributes>
            <full_number>1</full_number>
            <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
            <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
          </credit_card_attributes>
          <coupon_code>EARLYBIRD</coupon_code>
        </subscription>
      """
    When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
        <state>active</state>
        <previous_state>`auto generated`</previous_state>
        <balance_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</balance_in_cents>
        <total_revenue_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</total_revenue_in_cents>
        <product_price_in_cents type="integer">`your value`</product_price_in_cents>
        <product_version_number type="integer">1</product_version_number>
        <current_period_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_started_at>
        <current_period_ends_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_ends_at>
        <next_assessment_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</next_assessment_at>
        <trial_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_started_at>
        <trial_ended_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_ended_at>
        <activated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</activated_at>
        <expires_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</expires_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        <canceled_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</canceled_at>
        <cancellation_message nil="true"></cancellation_message>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period type="boolean" nil="true"></cancel_at_end_of_period>
        <delayed_cancel_at nil="true"></delayed_cancel_at>
        <coupon_code>EARLYBIRD</coupon_code>
        <signup_payment_id type="integer">`auto generated`</signup_payment_id>
        <signup_revenue>`your value`</signup_revenue>
        <payment_collection_method>automatic</payment_collection_method>
        <customer>
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <first_name>Joe</first_name>
          <last_name>Blow</last_name>
          <email>joe@example.com</email>
          <organization>`your value`</organization>
          <reference>`your value`</reference>
          <address>`your value`</address>
          <address_2>`your value`</address_2>
          <city>`your value`</city>
          <state>`your value`</state>
          <zip>`your value`</zip>
          <country>`your value`</country>
          <phone>`your value`</phone>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        </customer>
        <product>
          <id>`auto generated`</id>
          <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
          <handle>[@product.handle]</handle>
          <description>`your value`</description>
          <interval>`your value`</interval>
          <interval_unit>`your value`</interval_unit>
          <name>`your value`</name>
          <price_in_cents>`your value`</price_in_cents>
          <initial_charge_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></initial_charge_in_cents>
          <trial_interval type="integer" nil="true"></trial_interval>
          <trial_interval_unit nil="true"></trial_interval_unit>
          <trial_price_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></trial_price_in_cents>
          <expiration_interval type="integer">`your value`</expiration_interval>
          <expiration_interval_unit>`your value`</expiration_interval_unit>
          <archived_at type="datetime" nil="true"></archived_at>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
          <request_credit_card type="boolean">true</request_credit_card>
          <require_credit_card type="boolean">true</require_credit_card>
          <return_url nil="true"></return_url>
          <update_return_url nil="true"></update_return_url>
          <return_params nil="true"></return_params>
          <product_family>
            <id>`auto generated`</id>
            <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
            <handle>`your value`</handle>
            <name>`your value`</name>
            <description>`your value`</description>
          </product_family>
        </product>
        <credit_card type="PaymentProfile">
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <card_type>bogus</card_type>
          <expiration_month type="integer">10</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year type="integer">2020</expiration_year>
          <first_name>Joe</first_name>
          <last_name>Blow</last_name>
          <masked_card_number>XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1</masked_card_number>
          <billing_address>`your value`</billing_address>
          <billing_address_2>`your value`</billing_address_2>
          <billing_city>`your value`</billing_city>
          <billing_state>`your value`</billing_state>
          <billing_zip>`your value`</billing_zip>
          <billing_country>`your value`</billing_country>
          <current_vault type="integer">`your value`</current_vault>
          <vault_token type="integer">`your value`</vault_token>
          <customer_vault_token>`your value`</customer_vault_token>
          <customer_id>`auto generated`</customer_id>
        </credit_card>
      </subscription>
      """
    And I should have 1 subscription
    And the subscription should have 1 coupon
    And the coupon should have been applied

    Scenario: Create a subscription successfully when a tax is applicable
      Given I have 1 product
      And the product is taxable
      And I have a tax named "PA Sales Tax"
      And the tax applies to the customer's location
      And I have this xml subscription data
        """
          <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
          <subscription>
            <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
            <customer_attributes>
              <first_name>Joe</first_name>
              <last_name>Blow</last_name>
              <email>joe@example.com</email>
              <country>US</country>
              <state>PA</state>
            </customer_attributes>
            <credit_card_attributes>
              <full_number>1</full_number>
              <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
              <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
            </credit_card_attributes>
          </subscription>
        """
      When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
      Then the response status should be "201 Created"
      And a charge for the tax should have been created

    Scenario: Create a subscription for a product with an empty credit card
      Given I have 1 product
      And I have this xml subscription data
        """
          <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
          <subscription>
            <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
            <customer_attributes>
              <first_name>Joe</first_name>
              <last_name>Blow</last_name>
              <email>joe@example.com</email>
              <country>US</country>
              <state>PA</state>
            </customer_attributes>
            <credit_card_attributes>
            </credit_card_attributes>
          </subscription>
        """
      When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
      Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"

    Scenario: Create a subscription for a product with empty customer params
      Given I have 1 product
      And I have this xml subscription data
        """
          <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
          <subscription>
            <product_handle>[@product.handle]</product_handle>
            <customer_attributes>
            </customer_attributes>
            <credit_card_attributes>
              <full_number>1</full_number>
              <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
              <expiration_year>2020</expiration_year>
            </credit_card_attributes>
          </subscription>
        """
      When I send a POST request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.xml
      Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
</pre></code>

Back to "Create":#create

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-create). JSON Create Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Create JSON API
  In order to integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to create a subscription via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user for site with subdomain "acme"
    And I send and accept json

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with customer data, credit card data, and a product handle
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":`auto generated`,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents": 0,
        "total_revenue_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":`your value`,
          "address_2":`your value`,
          "city":`your value`,
          "state":`auto generated`,
          "zip":`auto generated`,
          "country":`auto generated`,
          "phone":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":"basic",
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          }
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "masked_card_number":"XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1",
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":10,
          "expiration_year":2020,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """

  Scenario: Create a subscription using an existing customer ID
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And site "acme" has a customer with ID "2000"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_id":2000,
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"


  Scenario: Create a subscription using an existing customer reference
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have a customer with these attributes
      | reference | first_name | last_name | email           |
      | 7890      | Joe        | Blow      | joe@example.com |
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_reference":"7890",
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"

  Scenario: Creating a subscription fails due to missing or invalid attributes
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"errors":
        [
          "Credit card expiration year: cannot be blank.",
          "Last name: cannot be blank.",
          "Credit card expiration month: cannot be blank.",
          "Email address: cannot be blank."
        ]
      }
      """

  Scenario: Creating a subscription fails due to a missing product
    Given I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"this-does-not-exist",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"errors":
        [
          "Product with API Handle 'this-does-not-exist' does not exist for this site."
        ]
      }
      """

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with a coupon
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have a $5 off coupon with the code "EARLYBIRD"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        },
        "coupon_code":"EARLYBIRD"
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":`auto generated`,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":null,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":"EARLYBIRD",
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":`your value`,
          "address_2":`your value`,
          "city":`your value`,
          "state":`auto generated`,
          "zip":`auto generated`,
          "country":`auto generated`,
          "phone":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":"basic",
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          }
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "masked_card_number":"XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1",
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":10,
          "expiration_year":2020,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """
    And I should have 1 subscription
    And the subscription should have 1 coupon
    And the coupon should have been applied


  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with a coupon subcode
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have a $5 off coupon with the code "EARLYBIRD"
    And the coupon has the subcode "SUB111"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        },
        "coupon_code":"SUB111"
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And I should have 1 subscription
    And the subscription should have 1 coupon
    And the coupon should have been applied
    And the adjustment's memo should include the coupon subcode "SUB111"


  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with customer address and phone
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "address":"1 Infinite Loop",
          "address_2":"Suite 1",
          "city":"Cupertino",
          "state":"CA",
          "zip":"95014",
          "country":"US",
          "phone":"5552666666"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":`auto generated`,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":"1 Infinite Loop",
          "address_2":"Suite 1",
          "city":"Cupertino",
          "state":"CA",
          "zip":"95014",
          "country":"US",
          "phone":"5552666666",
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":"basic",
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          }
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "masked_card_number":"XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1",
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":10,
          "expiration_year":2020,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with billing address
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "address":"1 Infinite Loop",
          "address_2":"Suite 1",
          "city":"Cupertino",
          "state":"CA",
          "zip":"95014",
          "country":"US",
          "phone":"5552666666"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020",
          "billing_address":"1 Infinite Loop",
          "billing_address_2":"Suite 1",
          "billing_city":"Cupertino",
          "billing_state":"CA",
          "billing_zip":"95014",
          "billing_country":"US"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":`auto generated`,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":"1 Infinite Loop",
          "address_2":"Suite 1",
          "city":"Cupertino",
          "state":"CA",
          "zip":"95014",
          "country":"US",
          "phone":"5552666666",
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":"basic",
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          }
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "masked_card_number":"XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1",
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":10,
          "expiration_year":2020,
          "billing_address":"1 Infinite Loop",
          "billing_address_2":"Suite 1",
          "billing_city":"Cupertino",
          "billing_state":"CA",
          "billing_zip":"95014",
          "billing_country":"US",
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """
  Scenario: Creating a subscription with a specified billing date
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        },
        "next_billing_at":"2020-06-01"
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the subscription's channel attribute should be set to "api"

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully when a tax is applicable
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And the product is taxable
    And I have a tax named "PA Sales Tax"
    And the tax applies to the customer's location
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com",
          "state":"PA",
          "country":"US"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And a charge for the tax should have been created

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with an on-off component
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And the product family has an on/off component with ID "2500"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        },
        "components": [{
          "component_id": 2500,
          "enabled": true
        }]
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And and the component will be toggled "on" for the subscription

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with a quantity-based component
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And the product family has a quantity-based component with ID "2500"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2020"
        },
        "components": [{
          "component_id": 2500,
          "allocated_quantity": 14
        }]
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
    And the allocated quantity should be 14

  Scenario: Create a subscription successfully with customer data, credit card data, and a product handle
    Given site "acme" has a product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle":"basic",
        "customer_attributes":{
          "first_name":"Joe",
          "last_name":"Blow",
          "email":"joe@example.com"
        },
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"1",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2016"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a POST request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions.json
    Then the response status should be "201 Created"
</code></pre>

Back to "Create":#create

h3(#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-update). XML Update Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Edit/Update XML API
  In order to integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to edit/update a subscription via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user for site with subdomain "acme"
    And I send and accept xml

  Scenario: Update the credit card information on a subscription using credit_card_attributes
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <credit_card_attributes>
          <full_number>2</full_number>
          <expiration_month>10</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year>2040</expiration_year>
        </credit_card_attributes>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <id type="integer">1000</id>
        <state>active</state>
        <previous_state>`auto generated`</previous_state>
        <balance_in_cents type="integer">0</balance_in_cents>
        <total_revenue_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</total_revenue_in_cents>
        <product_price_in_cents type="integer">`your value`</product_price_in_cents>
        <product_version_number type="integer">1</product_version_number>
        <current_period_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_started_at>
        <current_period_ends_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_ends_at>
        <next_assessment_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</next_assessment_at>
        <trial_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_started_at>
        <trial_ended_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_ended_at>
        <activated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</activated_at>
        <expires_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</expires_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        <canceled_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</canceled_at>
        <cancellation_message nil="true"></cancellation_message>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period type="boolean">false</cancel_at_end_of_period>
        <delayed_cancel_at nil="true"></delayed_cancel_at>
        <coupon_code nil="true"></coupon_code>
        <signup_payment_id type="integer">`auto generated`</signup_payment_id>
        <signup_revenue>`your value`</signup_revenue>
        <payment_collection_method>automatic</payment_collection_method>
        <customer>
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <email>`your value`</email>
          <organization>`your value`</organization>
          <reference>`your value`</reference>
          <address>`your value`</address>
          <address_2>`your value`</address_2>
          <city>`your value`</city>
          <state>`your value`</state>
          <zip>`your value`</zip>
          <country>`your value`</country>
          <phone>`your value`</phone>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at>`auto generated`</updated_at>
        </customer>
        <product>
          <id>`auto generated`</id>
          <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
          <handle>`your value`</handle>
          <description>`your value`</description>
          <interval>`your value`</interval>
          <interval_unit>`your value`</interval_unit>
          <name>`your value`</name>
          <price_in_cents>`your value`</price_in_cents>
          <initial_charge_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></initial_charge_in_cents>
          <trial_interval type="integer" nil="true"></trial_interval>
          <trial_interval_unit nil="true"></trial_interval_unit>
          <trial_price_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></trial_price_in_cents>
          <expiration_interval type="integer">`your value`</expiration_interval>
          <expiration_interval_unit>`your value`</expiration_interval_unit>
          <archived_at type="datetime" nil="true"></archived_at>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
          <request_credit_card type="boolean">true</request_credit_card>
          <require_credit_card type="boolean">true</require_credit_card>
          <return_url nil="true"></return_url>
          <update_return_url nil="true"></update_return_url>
          <return_params nil="true"></return_params>
          <product_family>
            <id>`auto generated`</id>
            <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
            <handle>`your value`</handle>
            <name>`your value`</name>
            <description>`your value`</description>
          </product_family>
        </product>
        <credit_card type="PaymentProfile">
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <card_type>`auto generated`</card_type>
          <expiration_month type="integer">10</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year type="integer">2040</expiration_year>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <masked_card_number>XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-2</masked_card_number>
          <billing_address>`your value`</billing_address>
          <billing_address_2>`your value`</billing_address_2>
          <billing_city>`your value`</billing_city>
          <billing_state>`your value`</billing_state>
          <billing_zip>`your value`</billing_zip>
          <billing_country>`your value`</billing_country>
          <current_vault type="integer">`your value`</current_vault>
          <vault_token type="integer">`your value`</vault_token>
          <customer_vault_token>`your value`</customer_vault_token>
          <customer_id>`auto generated`</customer_id>
        </credit_card>
      </subscription>
      """

  Scenario: Update the product associated with the subscription
    Given I have a product family with ID "1502"
    And I have a product with these attributes
      | id   | handle | name       | price_in_cents | product_family_id |
      | 2001 | basic  | Basic Plan | 1900           | 1502              |
    And I have a product with these attributes
      | id   | handle | name       | price_in_cents | product_family_id |
      | 2002 | pro    | Pro Plan   | 9900           | 1502              |
    And I have an active subscription with ID "1000" to the product with handle "basic"
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <product_handle>pro</product_handle>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <id type="integer">1000</id>
        <state>active</state>
        <previous_state>`auto generated`</previous_state>
        <balance_in_cents type="integer">0</balance_in_cents>
        <total_revenue_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</total_revenue_in_cents>
        <product_price_in_cents type="integer">`your value`</product_price_in_cents>
        <product_version_number type="integer">1</product_version_number>
        <current_period_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_started_at>
        <current_period_ends_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_ends_at>
        <next_assessment_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</next_assessment_at>
        <trial_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_started_at>
        <trial_ended_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_ended_at>
        <activated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</activated_at>
        <expires_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</expires_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        <canceled_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</canceled_at>
        <cancellation_message nil="true"></cancellation_message>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period type="boolean">false</cancel_at_end_of_period>
        <delayed_cancel_at nil="true"></delayed_cancel_at>
        <coupon_code nil="true"></coupon_code>
        <signup_payment_id type="integer">`auto generated`</signup_payment_id>
        <signup_revenue>`your value`</signup_revenue>
        <payment_collection_method>automatic</payment_collection_method>
        <customer>
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <email>`your value`</email>
          <organization>`your value`</organization>
          <reference>`your value`</reference>
          <address>`your value`</address>
          <address_2>`your value`</address_2>
          <city>`your value`</city>
          <state>`your value`</state>
          <zip>`your value`</zip>
          <country>`your value`</country>
          <phone>`your value`</phone>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at>`auto generated`</updated_at>
        </customer>
        <product>
          <id type="integer">2002</id>
          <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
          <handle>pro</handle>
          <description>`your value`</description>
          <interval type="integer">`your value`</interval>
          <interval_unit>`your value`</interval_unit>
          <name>Pro Plan</name>
          <price_in_cents type="integer">9900</price_in_cents>
          <initial_charge_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></initial_charge_in_cents>
          <trial_interval type="integer" nil="true"></trial_interval>
          <trial_interval_unit nil="true"></trial_interval_unit>
          <trial_price_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></trial_price_in_cents>
          <expiration_interval type="integer">`your value`</expiration_interval>
          <expiration_interval_unit>`your value`</expiration_interval_unit>
          <archived_at type="datetime" nil="true"></archived_at>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
          <request_credit_card type="boolean">true</request_credit_card>
          <require_credit_card type="boolean">true</require_credit_card>
          <return_url nil="true"></return_url>
          <update_return_url nil="true"></update_return_url>
          <return_params nil="true"></return_params>
          <product_family>
            <id type="integer">1502</id>
            <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
            <handle>`your value`</handle>
            <name>`your value`</name>
            <description>`your value`</description>
          </product_family>
        </product>
        <credit_card type="PaymentProfile">
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <card_type>`auto generated`</card_type>
          <expiration_month type="integer">`your value`</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year type="integer">`your value`</expiration_year>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <masked_card_number>`your value`</masked_card_number>
          <billing_address>`your value`</billing_address>
          <billing_address_2>`your value`</billing_address_2>
          <billing_city>`your value`</billing_city>
          <billing_state>`your value`</billing_state>
          <billing_zip>`your value`</billing_zip>
          <billing_country>`your value`</billing_country>
          <current_vault type="integer">`your value`</current_vault>
          <vault_token type="integer">`your value`</vault_token>
          <customer_vault_token>`your value`</customer_vault_token>
          <customer_id>`auto generated`</customer_id>
        </credit_card>
      </subscription>
      """

  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date to a later date
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <next_billing_at>[@new_date = @subscription.current_period_ends_at + 1.week]</next_billing_at>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should be set to the new date

  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date to an earlier date
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <next_billing_at>[@new_date = @subscription.current_period_ends_at - 1.week]</next_billing_at>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should be set to the new date

  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date to a date in the past
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <next_billing_at>[@new_date = 1.week.ago]</next_billing_at>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should not be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should not be set to the new date
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <errors>
        <error>Provided 'Next Billing' date must be in the future</error>
      </errors>
      """

  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date, with trial
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I the subscription is trialing
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <next_billing_at>[@new_date = @subscription.current_period_ends_at + 1.week]</next_billing_at>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.xml
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "trial_ended_at" should be set to the new date
</code></pre>

Back to "Update":#update

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-update). JSON Update Usage Example

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-update-card). Card Update

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Edit/Update JSON API
  In order to integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to edit/update a subscription via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user for site with subdomain "acme"
    And I send and accept json

  Scenario: Update the credit card information on a subscription using credit_card_attributes
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "credit_card_attributes":{
          "full_number":"2",
          "expiration_month":"10",
          "expiration_year":"2030"
        }
      }}
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":1000,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "email":`your value`,
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":`your value`,
          "address_2":`your value`,
          "city":`your value`,
          "state":`auto generated`,
          "zip":`auto generated`,
          "country":`auto generated`,
          "phone":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":`your value`,
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          },
          "version_number": 1
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "masked_card_number":"XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-2",
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":10,
          "expiration_year":2030,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """
</code></pre>

h4(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-update-product). Product Change

<pre><code>
  Scenario: Update the product associated with the subscription
    Given I have a product family with ID "1502"
    And I have a product with these attributes
      | id   | handle | name       | price_in_cents | product_family_id |
      | 2001 | basic  | Basic Plan | 1900           | 1502              |
    And I have a product with these attributes
      | id   | handle | name       | price_in_cents | product_family_id |
      | 2002 | pro    | Pro Plan   | 9900           | 1502              |
    And I have an active subscription with ID "1000" to the product with handle "basic"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_handle": "pro"
      }}
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":1000,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":`auto generated`,
        "product_price_in_cents": 9900,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "email":`your value`,
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":`your value`,
          "address_2":`your value`,
          "city":`your value`,
          "state":`auto generated`,
          "zip":`auto generated`,
          "country":`auto generated`,
          "phone":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":2002,
          "name":"Pro Plan",
          "handle":"pro",
          "price_in_cents": 9900,
          "accounting_code": `your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval": `your value`,
          "interval_unit": `your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id": 1502,
            "name": `your value`,
            "handle": `your value`,
            "accounting_code": `your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          },
          "version_number": 1
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "masked_card_number":`your value`,
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":`your value`,
          "expiration_year":`your value`,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """
</code></pre>

h4(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-update-date). Billing Date Change

<pre><code>
  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date to a later date
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "next_billing_at": "[@new_date = @subscription.current_period_ends_at + 1.week]"
      }}
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "trial_ended_at" should be nil

  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date to an earlier date
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "next_billing_at": "[@new_date = @subscription.current_period_ends_at - 1.week]"
      }}
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "trial_ended_at" should be nil

  Scenario: Manually setting the next billing date to a date in the past
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "next_billing_at": "[@new_date =1.week.ago]"
      }}
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the subscription's "current_period_ends_at" should not be set to the new date
    And the subscription's "next_assessment_at" should not be set to the new date

</code></pre>

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-update-product). Product Change to Different Family

<pre><code>

  Scenario: Update the product associated with the subscription to a product on a different product family
    Given I have a customer named "John Doe"
    And I have a 3 tier product family named "Grasshopper"
    And I have a product family named "Foosballs"
    And I have a product named "Expensive Plan"
    And "John Doe" is subscribed to the "Medium Plan" with subscription ID "1000"
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "product_id": "[@product.id]"
      }}
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be on the "Expensive plan"
    And the response should be the json:
    """
    {"subscription":{
      "id":1000,
      "state":"active",
      "previous_state":`auto generated`,
      "balance_in_cents":`auto generated`,
      "total_revenue_in_cents":`auto generated`,
      "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
      "product_version_number": 1,
      "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
      "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
      "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
      "activated_at":`auto generated`,
      "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
      "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
      "expires_at":`auto generated`,
      "created_at":`auto generated`,
      "updated_at":`auto generated`,
      "canceled_at":`your value`,
      "cancellation_message":null,
      "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
      "delayed_cancel_at":null,
      "coupon_code":`your value`,
      "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
      "signup_revenue":`your value`,
      "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
      "customer":{
        "id":`auto generated`,
        "first_name":`your value`,
        "last_name":`your value`,
        "email":`your value`,
        "organization":`your value`,
        "reference":`your value`,
        "address":`your value`,
        "address_2":`your value`,
        "city":`your value`,
        "state":`auto generated`,
        "zip":`auto generated`,
        "country":`auto generated`,
        "phone":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`
      },
      "product":{
        "id":[@product.id],
        "name":"Expensive Plan",
        "handle":"[@product.handle]",
        "price_in_cents":[@product.price_in_cents],
        "accounting_code":"[@product.accounting_code]",
        "description":`your value`,
        "interval":[@product.interval],
        "interval_unit":"[@product.interval_unit]",
        "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
        "trial_price_in_cents":null,
        "trial_interval":null,
        "trial_interval_unit":null,
        "expiration_interval_unit":null,
        "expiration_interval":null,
        "return_url":null,
        "update_return_url":null,
        "return_params":null,
        "require_credit_card":true,
        "request_credit_card":true,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "archived_at":null,
        "product_family":{
          "id":[@product.product_family.id],
          "name":"[@product.product_family.name]",
          "handle":"[@product.product_family.handle]",
          "accounting_code":"[@product.product_family.accounting_code]",
          "description":`your value`
        },
        "version_number": 1
      },
      "credit_card":{
        "id":`auto generated`,
        "first_name":`your value`,
        "last_name":`your value`,
        "masked_card_number":`your value`,
        "card_type":`auto generated`,
        "expiration_month":`your value`,
        "expiration_year":`your value`,
        "billing_address":`your value`,
        "billing_address_2":`your value`,
        "billing_city":`your value`,
        "billing_state":`your value`,
        "billing_zip":`your value`,
        "billing_country":`your value`,
        "current_vault":`your value`,
        "vault_token":`your value`,
        "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
        "customer_id":`auto generated`
      }
    }}
    """
</code></pre>

Back to "Update":#update

h3(#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-delete). XML Delete/Cancel Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Cancel XML API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to cancel a subscription via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept xml responses


  Scenario: Cancel a subscription without giving a reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    When I send a DELETE request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"


  Scenario: Cancel a subscription while giving a reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <cancellation_message>
          Canceling the subscription via the API
        </cancellation_message>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a DELETE request with the xml data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
</code></pre>

Back to "Cancel":#cancel

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-delete). JSON Delete/Cancel Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Cancel JSON API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to cancel a subscription via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept json responses


  Scenario: Cancel a subscription without giving a reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    When I send a DELETE request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"


  Scenario: Cancel a subscription while giving a reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {
        'subscription': {
          'cancellation_message': 'Canceling the subscription via the API'
        }
      }
      """
    When I send a DELETE request with the json data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
</code></pre>

Back to "Cancel":#cancel

h3(#api-usage-xml-subscriptions-delayed-cancel). XML Delayed Cancel Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Delayed Cancel XML API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to cancel a subscription at the end of it's current period via the Chargify XML API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept xml responses

  Scenario: Delay cancel a subscription while giving a reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period>1</cancel_at_end_of_period>
		<cancellation_message>
			Canceling the subscription at the end of the period via the API
		</cancellation_message>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
		And the response should be the subscription output xml, with the `cancel_at_end_of_period` set to the same value.

  Scenario: Delay cancel a subscription while giving no reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    And I have this xml subscription data
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period>1</cancel_at_end_of_period>
      </subscription>
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the xml data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
		And the response should be the subscription output xml, with the `cancel_at_end_of_period` set to the same value.

</code></pre>

Back to "Delayed Cancel":#delayed

h3(#api-usage-json-subscriptions-delayed-cancel). JSON Delayed Cancel Usage Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Chargify Subscriptions Delayed Cancel JSON API
  In order integrate my app with Chargify
  As a developer
  I want to cancel a subscription at the end of the period via the Chargify JSON API

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I accept json responses

  Scenario: Delay cancel a subscription while giving a reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {
        'subscription': {
					'cancel_at_end_of_period': 1,
          'cancellation_message': 'Canceling the subscription via the API'
        }
      }
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
		And the response should be the subscription output json, with the `cancel_at_end_of_period` set to the same value.

	Scenario: Delay cancel a subscription while giving no reason/message
    Given I have an active subscription
    And I have this json subscription data
      """
      {
        'subscription': {
					'cancel_at_end_of_period': 1
        }
      }
      """
    When I send a PUT request with the json data to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id].json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
		And the response should be the subscription output json, with the `cancel_at_end_of_period` set to the same value.

</code></pre>

Back to "Delayed Cancel":#delayed

h3(#api-react-xml). XML Reactivation Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Reactivation
  In order to allow my customers to cancel and then return to their plans
  As a Seller
  I want the ability to reactivate a canceled subscription

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user for site with subdomain "acme"
    And I send and accept xml

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active
    And the response should be the xml:
      """
      <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
      <subscription>
        <id type="integer">1000</id>
        <state>active</state>
        <previous_state>`auto generated`</previous_state>
        <balance_in_cents type="integer">0</balance_in_cents>
        <total_revenue_in_cents type="integer">`auto generated`</total_revenue_in_cents>
        <product_price_in_cents type="integer">`your value`</product_price_in_cents>
        <product_version_number type="integer">1</product_version_number>
        <current_period_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_started_at>
        <current_period_ends_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</current_period_ends_at>
        <next_assessment_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</next_assessment_at>
        <trial_started_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_started_at>
        <trial_ended_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</trial_ended_at>
        <activated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</activated_at>
        <expires_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</expires_at>
        <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
        <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
        <canceled_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</canceled_at>
        <cancellation_message nil="true"></cancellation_message>
        <cancel_at_end_of_period type="boolean">false</cancel_at_end_of_period>
        <delayed_cancel_at nil="true"></delayed_cancel_at>
        <coupon_code nil="true"></coupon_code>
        <signup_payment_id type="integer">`auto generated`</signup_payment_id>
        <signup_revenue>`your value`</signup_revenue>
        <payment_collection_method>automatic</payment_collection_method>
        <customer>
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <email>`your value`</email>
          <organization>`your value`</organization>
          <reference>`your value`</reference>
          <address>`your value`</address>
          <address_2>`your value`</address_2>
          <city>`your value`</city>
          <state>`your value`</state>
          <zip>`your value`</zip>
          <country>`your value`</country>
          <phone>`your value`</phone>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at>`auto generated`</updated_at>
        </customer>
        <product>
          <id>`auto generated`</id>
          <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
          <handle>`your value`</handle>
          <description>`your value`</description>
          <interval>`your value`</interval>
          <interval_unit>`your value`</interval_unit>
          <name>`your value`</name>
          <price_in_cents>`your value`</price_in_cents>
          <initial_charge_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></initial_charge_in_cents>
          <trial_interval type="integer" nil="true"></trial_interval>
          <trial_interval_unit nil="true"></trial_interval_unit>
          <trial_price_in_cents type="integer" nil="true"></trial_price_in_cents>
          <expiration_interval type="integer">`your value`</expiration_interval>
          <expiration_interval_unit>`your value`</expiration_interval_unit>
          <archived_at type="datetime" nil="true"></archived_at>
          <created_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</created_at>
          <updated_at type="datetime">`auto generated`</updated_at>
          <request_credit_card type="boolean">true</request_credit_card>
          <require_credit_card type="boolean">true</require_credit_card>
          <return_url nil="true"></return_url>
          <update_return_url nil="true"></update_return_url>
          <return_params nil="true"></return_params>
          <product_family>
            <id>`auto generated`</id>
            <accounting_code>`your value`</accounting_code>
            <handle>`your value`</handle>
            <name>`your value`</name>
            <description>`your value`</description>
          </product_family>
        </product>
        <credit_card type="PaymentProfile">
          <id type="integer">`auto generated`</id>
          <card_type>`auto generated`</card_type>
          <expiration_month type="integer">`your value`</expiration_month>
          <expiration_year type="integer">`your value`</expiration_year>
          <first_name>`your value`</first_name>
          <last_name>`your value`</last_name>
          <masked_card_number>XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1</masked_card_number>
          <billing_address>`your value`</billing_address>
          <billing_address_2>`your value`</billing_address_2>
          <billing_city>`your value`</billing_city>
          <billing_state>`your value`</billing_state>
          <billing_zip>`your value`</billing_zip>
          <billing_country>`your value`</billing_country>
          <current_vault type="integer">`your value`</current_vault>
          <vault_token type="integer">`your value`</vault_token>
          <customer_vault_token>`your value`</customer_vault_token>
          <customer_id>`auto generated`</customer_id>
        </credit_card>
      </subscription>
      """

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with an invalid payment profile
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And the subscription has an invalid payment profile
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the subscription should be canceled
    And the response should be the xml:
    """
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <errors>
      <error>The credit card on file could not be charged.</error>
    </errors>
    """

  Scenario: Attempting to reactivate an already active subscription
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the subscription should be active
    And the response should be the xml:
    """
    <?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
    <errors>
      <error>Cannot reactivate a subscription that is not marked "Canceled", "Unpaid", or "Trial Ended".</error>
    </errors>
    """

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription while preserving the balance
    Given I have a product with ID "2002" that costs $19
    And I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000" to the product with ID "2002"
    Then 1 charge should exist for $19
    And 1 payment should exist for $19
    When the subscription has a negative balance of "19"
    And I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml?preserve_balance=1
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And 2 charges should exist for $19
    And 1 payments should exist for $19
    And the subscription should be active
    And the subscription balance should be zero

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with a coupon
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And it has no current period defined
    And I have a coupon named "Early Bird"
    And the coupon is set to recur for 6 periods
    And the coupon code is "EARLYBIRD"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json?coupon_code=EARLYBIRD
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active
    And the subscription should have applied a coupon with code "EARLYBIRD"

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with a trial, without the include_trial flag
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with a trial, with the include_trial flag
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml?include_trial=1
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be trialing

  Scenario: Reactivating a trial ended subscription
    Given I have a trial_ended subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active

  Scenario: Reactivating a trial ended subscription, without the include_trial flag
    Given I have a trial_ended subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active

  Scenario: Reactivating a trial ended subscription, with the include_trial flag
    Given I have a trial_ended subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.xml?include_trial=1
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be trialing
</code></pre>

Back to "Reactivate":#reactivate

h3(#api-react-json). JSON Reactivation Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Reactivation
  In order to allow my customers to cancel and then return to their plans
  As a Seller
  I want the ability to reactivate a canceled subscription

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user for site with subdomain "acme"
    And I send and accept json

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {"subscription":{
        "id":1000,
        "state":"active",
        "previous_state":`auto generated`,
        "balance_in_cents":0,
        "total_revenue_in_cents":2000,
        "product_price_in_cents": 1000,
        "product_version_number": 1,
        "current_period_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "current_period_ends_at":`auto generated`,
        "next_assessment_at":`auto generated`,
        "activated_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_ended_at":`auto generated`,
        "trial_started_at":`auto generated`,
        "expires_at":`auto generated`,
        "created_at":`auto generated`,
        "updated_at":`auto generated`,
        "canceled_at":`your value`,
        "cancellation_message":null,
        "cancel_at_end_of_period":false,
        "delayed_cancel_at":null,
        "coupon_code":`your value`,
        "signup_payment_id":`auto generated`,
        "signup_revenue":`your value`,
        "payment_collection_method":"automatic",
        "customer":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "email":`your value`,
          "organization":`your value`,
          "reference":`your value`,
          "address":`your value`,
          "address_2":`your value`,
          "city":`your value`,
          "state":`auto generated`,
          "zip":`auto generated`,
          "country":`auto generated`,
          "phone":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "created_at":`auto generated`
        },
        "product":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "name":`your value`,
          "handle":`your value`,
          "price_in_cents":`your value`,
          "accounting_code":`your value`,
          "description":`your value`,
          "interval":`your value`,
          "interval_unit":`your value`,
          "initial_charge_in_cents":null,
          "trial_price_in_cents":null,
          "trial_interval":null,
          "trial_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval_unit":null,
          "expiration_interval":null,
          "return_url":null,
          "update_return_url":null,
          "return_params":null,
          "require_credit_card":true,
          "request_credit_card":true,
          "created_at":`auto generated`,
          "updated_at":`auto generated`,
          "archived_at":null,
          "product_family":{
            "id":`auto generated`,
            "name":`your value`,
            "handle":`your value`,
            "accounting_code":`your value`,
            "description":`your value`
          },
          "version_number": 1
        },
        "credit_card":{
          "id":`auto generated`,
          "first_name":`your value`,
          "last_name":`your value`,
          "masked_card_number":"XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1",
          "card_type":`auto generated`,
          "expiration_month":`your value`,
          "expiration_year":`your value`,
          "billing_address":`your value`,
          "billing_address_2":`your value`,
          "billing_city":`your value`,
          "billing_state":`your value`,
          "billing_zip":`your value`,
          "billing_country":`your value`,
          "current_vault":`your value`,
          "vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_vault_token":`your value`,
          "customer_id":`auto generated`
        }
      }}
      """

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with an invalid payment profile
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And the subscription has an invalid payment profile
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the subscription should be canceled
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {
      "errors": ["The credit card on file could not be charged."]
      }
      """

  Scenario: Attempting to reactivate an already active subscription
    Given I have an active subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json
    Then the response status should be "422 Unprocessable Entity"
    And the subscription should be active
    And the response should be the json:
      """
      {
      "errors": ["Cannot reactivate a subscription that is not marked \"Canceled\", \"Unpaid\", or \"Trial Ended\"."]
      }
      """

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription while preserving the balance
    Given I have a product with ID "2002" that costs $19
    And I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000" to the product with ID "2002"
    Then 1 charge should exist for $19
    And 1 payment should exist for $19
    When the subscription has a negative balance of "19"
    And I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json?preserve_balance=1
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And 2 charges should exist for $19
    And 1 payments should exist for $19
    And the subscription should be active
    And the subscription balance should be zero

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with a coupon
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And it has no current period defined
    And I have a coupon named "Early Bird"
    And the coupon is set to recur for 6 periods
    And the coupon code is "EARLYBIRD"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json?coupon_code=EARLYBIRD
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active
    And the subscription should have applied a coupon with code "EARLYBIRD"

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with a trial, without the include_trial flag
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active

  Scenario: Reactivating a canceled subscription with a trial, with the include_trial flag
    Given I have a canceled subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json?include_trial=1
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be trialing

  Scenario: Reactivating a trial ended subscription
    Given I have a trial_ended subscription with ID "1000"
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active

  Scenario: Reactivating a trial ended subscription, without the include_trial flag
    Given I have a trial_ended subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be active

  Scenario: Reactivating a trial ended subscription, with the include_trial flag
    Given I have a trial_ended subscription with ID "1000"
    And the product associated with the subscription has a trial
    When I send a PUT request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/1000/reactivate.json?include_trial=1
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription should be trialing
</code></pre>

Back to "Reactivate":#reactivate

h3(#api-reset-balance-xml). XML Reset Balance Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Reset Subscription Balance
  In order to allow sellers to reset a customer's balance back to zero
  As a Seller
  I want the ability to reset a subscription

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I send and accept xml

  Scenario: Resetting the balance on a subscription with a positive balance
    Given I have a subscription
    And the subscription has a positive balance
    When I send a PUT request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id]/reset_balance.xml
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription balance should be zero
</code></pre>

Back to "Reset Balance":#reset-balance

h3(#api-reset-balance-json). JSON Reset Balance Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Reset Subscription Balance
  In order to allow sellers to reset a customer's balance back to zero
  As a Seller
  I want the ability to reset a subscription

  Background:
    Given I am a valid API user
    And I send and accept json

  Scenario: Resetting the balance on a subscription with a positive balance
    Given I have a subscription
    And the subscription has a positive balance
    When I send a PUT request to https://[@subdomain].chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id]/reset_balance.json
    Then the response status should be "200 OK"
    And the subscription balance should be zero
</code></pre>

Back to "Reset Balance":#reset-balance

h3(#api-delete-payment-profile-json). JSON Delete Payment Profile Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Delete payment Profile
  Scenario: Deleting a payment profile
    Given I have a subscription
    And the customer associated with the subscription has a payment profile
    When I send a DELETE request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id]/payment_profiles/[@payment_profile.id].json
    Then the response status should be "204 No Content"
    And the payment profile should be deleted

  If any errors occur, the response will be:

  {
    "errors" => "There was an error deleting the payment profile"
  }
</code></pre>

h3(#api-delete-payment-profile-xml). XML Delete Payment Profile Example

<pre><code>
Feature: Delete payment Profile
  Scenario: Deleting a payment profile
    Given I have a subscription
    And the customer associated with the subscription has a payment profile
    When I send a DELETE request to https://acme.chargify.com/subscriptions/[@subscription.id]/payment_profiles/[@payment_profile.id].xml
    Then the response status should be "204 No Content"
    And the payment profile should be deleted

  If any errors occur, the response will be:

  <errors>
    <error>There was an error deleting the payment profile</error>
  </error>
</code></pre>

Back to "Delete Payment Profile":#delete-payment-profile
