h2. URI/Method

|_. Resource/URI |_. GET |_. POST |_. PUT |_. DELETE |
| Signups<br/>@/signups@ | - | Create new signup | - | - |
  
h2. Signup Input Attributes

When creating a signup, you must specify a @product@, @customer@, and @payment_profile@, all within the @signup@ key.  Credit card details may be required, depending on the options for the Product being subscribed (see "Product Options":/product-options).

The product may be specified by either @product[id]@ or by @product[handle]@ (API Handle).

* @product@ 
** @id@ The id of the product your customer is signing up for
** @handle@ The API handle of the product your customer is signing up for
* @customer@
** @first_name@ Customer's first name
** @last_name@ Customer's last name
** @email@ Customer's email address
* @payment_profile@
** @first_name@ First name on card
** @last_name@ Last name on card
** @card_number@ The full credit card number, as a string
** @expiration_month@  The 1- or 2-digit credit card expiration month, as an integer or string, i.e. "5"
** @expiration_year@  The 4-digit credit card expiration year, as an integer or string, i.e. "2012"

h4. JSON for creating a signup with product[id]

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2.1/signups@
Method: @POST@

<script src="http://gist.github.com/9c264cf848941775043d.js?file=signups-post-request-product-id.json"></script>

h4. JSON for creating a signup with product[handle]

URL: @https://api.chargify.com/api/v2.1/signups@
Method: @POST@

<script src="http://gist.github.com/9c264cf848941775043d.js?file=signups-post-request-product-handle.json"></script>

h2. Signup Response

The following is an example of a successful @POST@ to @/signups@

<script src="http://gist.github.com/9c264cf848941775043d.js?file=signups-post-response.json"></script>

h4. Unsuccessful responses

Any errors will be returned within the @meta[errors]@ key. For example, when trying to create a new subscription without passing in the @payment_profile[expiration_month]@, the following is returned:

<script src="http://gist.github.com/9c264cf848941775043d.js?file=signups-post-response-errors.json"></script>

Not passing in a @customer@ at all will yield the following response:

 <script src="http://gist.github.com/9c264cf848941775043d.js?file=signups-post-response-errors-customer.json"></script>


