If your customer has been invited to the Billing Portal, then they will receive a link to manage their subscription (the "Management URL") automatically at the bottom of their statements, invoices, and receipts.  _This link changes periodically for security and is only valid for 65 days_.  Please be sure to read more about "the links your customers receive for the Billing Portal":/billing-portal

If you need to provide your customer their Management URL through other means, you can retrieve it via the API.  Because the URL is cryptographically signed with a timestamp, it is not possible for merchants to generate the URL without requesting it from Chargify.

In order to prevent abuse & overuse, we ask that you request a new URL only when absolutely necessary.  Management URLs are good for 65 days, so you should re-use a previously generated one as much as possible.  If you use the URL frequently (such as to display on your website), please **do not** make an API request to Chargify every time.  

h2. Rules for Management Link API

* When retrieving a management URL, multiple requests for the same customer in a short period will return the **same** URL
* We will not generate a new URL for 15 days
* You **must** cache and remember this URL if you are going to need it again within 15 days
* Only request a new URL after the @new_link_available_at@ date
* You are limited to 15 requests for the same URL.  If you make more than 15 requests before @new_link_available_at@, you will be blocked from further Management URL requests (with a response code @429@)


h2. Management Link Attributes

All of the attribute fields are returned from GET (read) operations, and all are read only.

* @url@ The customer's management URL
* @fetch_count@ Number of times this link has been retrieved (at 15 you will be blocked)
* @created_at@ When this link was created
* @new_link_available_at@ When a new link will be available and @fetch_count@ is reset (15 days from when it was created)
* @expires_at@ When this link expires (65 days from when it was created)  

h2. Methods

h3. Read/Show

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/portal/customers/<customer_id>/management_link@  
Method: @GET@  
Required Parameters: @customer_id@  

"JSON example":#api-call-json-read
"XML example":#api-call-xml-read

h2. Usage Examples

h3(#api-call-json-read). JSON Read Call Example

<pre><code>

curl -u <API_KEY>:x -H "Accept: application/json" https://<subdomain>chargify.com/portal/customers/<customer_id>/management_link.json

{
  "url": "https://www.billingportal.com/manage/123/1383672520/a5b33efa2fdedb11",
  "fetch_count": 1,
  "created_at": "2013-11-05T00:00:00Z",
  "new_link_available_at": "2013-11-20T00:00:00Z",
  "expires_at": "2014-01-09T00:00:00Z"
}

# After too many requests (status code: 429):

{"errors":{"error":"Too many requests for this customer's management link"}}

</code></pre>


h3(#api-call-xml-read). XML Read Call Example

<pre><code>

curl -u <API_KEY>:x -H "Accept: application/xml" https://<subdomain>chargify.com/portal/customers/<customer_id>/management_link.xml


<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<management_link>
  <url>https://www.billingportal.com/manage/123/1383672520/a5b33efa2fdedb11</url>
  <fetch_count type="integer">1</fetch_count>
  <created_at type="datetime">2013-11-05T00:00:00Z</created_at>
  <new_link_available_at type="datetime">2013-11-20T00:00:00Z</new_link_available_at>
  <expires_at type="datetime">2014-01-09T00:00:00Z</expires_at>
</management_link>

# After too many requests (status code: 429):

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<errors>
  <error>Too many requests for this customer's management link</error>
</errors>


</code></pre>


h2. Enabling Portal For a Customer

You can enable Billing Portal access for a Customer, with the option of sending the Customer an Invitation email at the same time.

h3. Enabling Portal

URL: @https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/portal/customers/<customer_id>/enable@  
Method: @POST@  
Required Parameters: @id@ The Customer ID
Optional Parameters: @auto_invite@ When set to @1@, an Invitation email will be sent to the Customer. When set to @0@, or not sent, an email will not be sent.

h3(#api-call-xml-read). XML Enable Call Example

<pre><code>curl -H "Content-Type: application/xml" -X POST -u <API_KEY>:x https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/portal/customers/:id/enable.xml

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<customer>
  <first_name>John</first_name>
  <last_name>Doe</last_name>
  <email>jd@example.com</email>
  <organization></organization>
  <reference nil="true"/>
  <id type="integer">100032</id>
  <created_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T11:13:52-04:00</created_at>
  <updated_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T15:06:52-04:00</updated_at>
  <address>123 Main St</address>
  <address_2></address_2>
  <city>New York</city>
  <state>NY</state>
  <zip>10045</zip>
  <country>US</country>
  <phone></phone>
  <verified type="boolean">true</verified>
  <portal_customer_created_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T15:06:52-04:00</portal_customer_created_at>
  <portal_invite_last_sent_at type="datetime" nil="true"/>
  <portal_invite_last_accepted_at type="datetime" nil="true"/>
</customer>
</code></pre>

When sending an Invitation email at the same time as enabling Billing Portal:

<pre><code>curl -H "Content-Type: application/xml" -X POST -u <API_KEY>:x https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/portal/customers/:id/enable.xml\?auto_invite\=1

<?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<customer>
  <first_name>John</first_name>
  <last_name>Doe</last_name>
  <email>jd@example.com</email>
  <organization></organization>
  <reference nil="true"/>
  <id type="integer">100032</id>
  <created_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T11:13:52-04:00</created_at>
  <updated_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T15:06:52-04:00</updated_at>
  <address>123 Main St</address>
  <address_2></address_2>
  <city>New York</city>
  <state>NY</state>
  <zip>10045</zip>
  <country>US</country>
  <phone></phone>
  <verified type="boolean">true</verified>
  <portal_customer_created_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T15:19:42-04:00</portal_customer_created_at>
  <portal_invite_last_sent_at type="datetime">2014-04-17T15:19:42-04:00</portal_invite_last_sent_at>
  <portal_invite_last_accepted_at type="datetime" nil="true"/>
</customer>
</code></pre>

When Billing Portal is already enabled for this Customer:

<pre><code><?xml version="1.0" encoding="UTF-8"?>
<errors type="array">
  <error>Portal is already enabled for this customer.</error>
</errors>
</code></pre>

h3(#api-call-json-read). JSON Enable Call Example

<pre><code>curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -u <API_KEY>:x https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/portal/customers/:id/enable.json

{
  "customer":
  {
    "first_name":"John",
    "last_name":"Doe",
    "email":"jd@example.com",
    "organization":"",
    "reference":null,
    "id":100032,
    "created_at":"2014-04-17T11:13:52-04:00",
    "updated_at":"2014-04-17T15:37:08-04:00",
    "address":"45 Main St",
    "address_2":"",
    "city":"New York",
    "state":"NY",
    "zip":"10045",
    "country":"US",
    "phone":"",
    "verified":false,
    "portal_customer_created_at":"2014-04-17T15:37:08-04:00",
    "portal_invite_last_sent_at":null,
    "portal_invite_last_accepted_at":null
  }
}
</code></pre>

When sending an Invitation email at the same time as enabling Billing Portal:

<pre><code>curl -H "Content-Type: application/json" -X POST -u <API_KEY>:x https://<subdomain>.chargify.com/portal/customers/:id/enable.json\?auto_invite\=1

{
  "customer":
  {
    "first_name":"John",
    "last_name":"Doe",
    "email":"jd@example.com",
    "organization":"",
    "reference":null,
    "id":100032,
    "created_at":"2014-04-17T11:13:52-04:00",
    "updated_at":"2014-04-17T15:37:08-04:00",
    "address":"45 Main St",
    "address_2":"",
    "city":"New York",
    "state":"NY",
    "zip":"10045",
    "country":"US",
    "phone":"",
    "verified":false,
    "portal_customer_created_at":"2014-04-17T15:37:08-04:00",
    "portal_invite_last_sent_at":"2014-04-17T15:37:08-04:00",
    "portal_invite_last_accepted_at":null
  }
}
</code></pre>

When Billing Portal is already enabled for this Customer:

<pre><code>
{
  "errors": [ "Portal is already enabled for this customer." ]
}</code></pre>
