Sometimes, we label new features within Chargify with a "Beta" status.  What does this mean?

h3. This feature is new

We apply the beta label to let you know that a feature is (relatively) new.  In order to learn how a new feature will really be used "in the real world", we are making this feature available early so that we can explore usage patterns and gather feedback.

h3. There are "unknown unknowns"

With every new feature there are ("to paraphrase Donald Rumsfeld":http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/There_are_known_knowns):

* Known knowns: the things we know we know about the feature
* Known unknowns: things we know we don't know about the feature (which is why we're soliciting feedback by releasing it!)
* Unknown unknowns: the things we don't know we don't know about the feature

We rigorously test all of our features, even the beta ones.  But there are probably certain configurations or use patterns that we didn't anticipate in our testing.  Once we put a feature out there, these things usually come to light and we are able to react and fix them.

h3. We want your feedback

By releasing a new feature early, we're leaving some decisions unmade, either intentionally or unintentionally.  This allows us to adapt based on real-life needs or use patterns.  So, if you're trying out a beta label feature, and something isn't right, please let us know by "opening a support ticket":https://chargify.zendesk.com/hc/en-us/requests/new.

h2. What we ask of you

If you choose to make use of a beta label feature, we ask that you do the following:

* Read the available documentation
* Test the feature for your use case before "going live"
* Give us suggestions or bug reports
