The Chargify billing portal provides a great way for your customers to manage their subscription without you having to write any code.  They can update their card, change plans, or cancel, all from one convenient interface.

The Billing Portal does **not** require the customer to set or remember a special username or password.  Instead, everything they need is included in a variety of helpful e-mails:

* **Invite E-mail** - You may choose to have all customers automatically invited to the Billing Portal or you may invite them manually.  When the customer accepts an invitation, they will be signed in to the Billing Portal to be able to access their subscriptions.  The invite e-mail is valid for 48 hours after it is sent.  If a customer tries to use the invite after this time, they'll be asked to generate a new invite.

* **Login E-mail** - If the customer has not used the Billing Portal for an extended period of time, he or she may be asked to sign in again.  We will send a new login URL that is valid for 1 hour.  This process is very similar to the common "Reset Password" procedure on most websites (and has a similar security profile).

* **Management URL** - Included at the bottom of statements & invoices your customers receive is a link to manage their subscriptions.  This link is good for 65 days.  This link alone is **not** sufficient to sign a customer into their Billing Portal account.  If the customer is already signed in (from the methods above), they can access their subscription.  If not, they will be asked to verify their identity with a new login e-mail.

h3. Management URL details

You can use the Chargify site to manually view a customer's Management URL.  That way you can e-mail it or provide it to them in whatever way you choose.  You may also retrieve it "via the API":/api-billing-portal