For information on how to add Custom JavasScript and CSS to your Public Pages, please see "Public Page Default Settings":/public-page-default-settings and "Public Signup Page Settings":/public-signup-page-settings.

These snippets of code are intended as examples to show how to select and modify different elements on the Public Pages. Chargify Support can provide assistance with simple changes such as hiding a field or restricting the country location for new signups.  Depending on your level of expertise, it may be necessary to engage a Web Developer to accomplish more complex requirements.

Each snippet has been tested in isolation.  If snippets are combined with each other, or with existing Custom JavaScript and CSS on your Public Pages, unexpected behavior may occur.  Please test your Public Pages thoroughly to make sure the behavior satisfies your requirements.

h4(#limit-us). Limit Signups to US

This JavaScript code will limit the country dropdown to only have US selectable.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Limit_to_US.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#require-custom-fields). Require Custom Fields on Public Pages

This code will allow a Text Field type Custom Field to be required on the Public Pages. You will need to know the ID of the Custom Field. To find the ID, go to the Setup tab, click Custom Fields, then click Edit to the right of the field you are interested in.  The ID number will be in the URL.  Replace XXX with this ID in the code below.

In addition to the Custom JavaScript, lines 34-39 show the Custom CSS that is needed to make the field turn red if the customer submits the form without entering anything.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Require_custom_field.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#require-organization). Require Organization Field

This code will allow the Organization field to be required on the Public Pages. You will need to add the CSS from lines 41-46 to your Custom CSS box for the field to turn red if a customer does not provide a value for the Organization field.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Require_organization_field.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#require-phone). Require Phone Field

This code will allow the Phone Number field to be required on the Public Pages. You will need to add the CSS from lines 35-40 to your Custom CSS box for the field to turn red if a customer does not provide a value for the Phone Number field.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Require_phone_field.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#hide-summary). Hide Summary Information

This will hide the recurring charges and component charges on the Public Page.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Hide_summary_information.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#change-text-label). Change Label Text

This will change the text of a label on your Public Page. The example code shown is for the Organization label.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Change_label_text.js" type="text/javascript"></script>


h4(#change-setup-fee-text). Change Setup Fee Text

This will change the setup fee text to be anything you want it to be.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Change_setupfee_text.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#change-submit-text). Change Submit Button Text

This will change the submit button text from the default "Place My Order" to anything you want it to be.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Change_submit_button_text.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#force-equal-components). Force Two Components to be Equal

In case you ever need to have one component equal the same value as another you can use this script to accomplish the task.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/rbabcock/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Force_equal_component_value.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4(#signup-css-classes). Signup Page CSS Classes

The following is a list of all CSS classes used on the Public Signup Page.

new_subscription
company_name
hidden
component_configuration
row
left
component-label
component-description
quantity_component_number_field
component-info
component-multiplier
component-price
componentError
priceDetails tip
component-price-list
component-checkbox
checkbox component-price
section_one
line-item_initial
line-item_baseline
tint
section_two
right
address shipping_address
country_select address shipping_address
subdivision_select address shipping_address
use-ship-label
section_three
hint
section_four
metafield_configuration
button_wrapper
powered-by-chargify

h4(#signup-css-ids). Signup Page CSS IDs

The following is a list of all CSS IDs used on the Public Signup Page.

page_wrapper
page_column
security
content
company
hosted-payment-form
token
component_configuration
component_row_####
components__component_id
component_allocated_quantity_####
component_errors_####
component_price_list_####
on_off_component_####
component_checkbox_####
apply_component_button
summary
billing_summary
summary-setup-fee
summary-recurring-charges
total
todays-charge
expiration-date
subscription_ref
subscription_customer_attributes_first_name
subscription_customer_attributes_last_name
subscription_customer_attributes_address
subscription_customer_attributes_address_2
subscription_customer_attributes_country
subscription_customer_attributes_state
subscription_customer_attributes_city
subscription_customer_attributes_zip
copy-address
billing_info
subscription_coupon_code
coupon_button
coupon_spinner
short_coupon_message
long_coupon_message
payment_type
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_first_name
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_last_name
credit_card_info
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_full_number
credit_card_logos
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_cvv
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_expiration_month
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_expiration_year
subscription_payment_profile_attributes_billing_zip
contact_info
subscription_customer_attributes_email
subscription_customer_attributes_reference
subscription_customer_attributes_phone
subscription_customer_attributes_organization
metafield_####
product_id
subscription_submit
footer
