Under the "Settings":/settings tab of your Chargify account are options related to sending automated emails from Chargify to your customers around certain subscription lifecycle events (e.g., post-signup, credit card dunning, upcoming renewal, etc.).

Chargify provides default templates for each of these emails, but you are free to edit them to fit your business' needs. We expose a number of variables for you to use in each email template. Variables must be quoted in double braces, such as @{{product.name}}@.

The syntax used in the email templates is called "Liquid". The "Liquid for Designers":https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers wiki page provides a good overview and many examples, including "If / Else":https://github.com/Shopify/liquid/wiki/Liquid-for-Designers#if--else for conditional logic.

The following variables are available for signup, dunning, receipt, expiration, end of trial, and upcoming renewal emails:

h4(#legacy). Legacy fields

* @{{from_address}}@ this will be replaced with acme-inc@example.com if left as {{from_address}} though any valid email address will do.
* @{{name}}@ the name of your customer. e.g. Bill Williams
* @{{full_name}}@ the name of your customer. e.g. Bill Williams
* @{{product_price}}@ the recurring price@ of the subscription's current product
* @{{product_name}}@ the name of the product. e.g. Basic Plan
* @{{product_family}}@ the name of the product family e.g. Wonderful Products
* @{{product_family_and_name}}@ the product family name followed by the product name. e.g. Wonderful Products Basic Plan
* @{{balance_in_cents}}@ the amount, if any, they still owe. e.g. 0 (for $0.00) or 23100 (for $231.00) Useful for conditionally adding a reminder.
* @{{balance}}@ the amount, if any, they still owe in dollars. e.g. $0.00 or $2.31
* @{{merchant_name}}@ your merchant name. e.g. Acme, Inc.
* @{{masked_card_number}}@ The masked credit card number. eg XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1
* @{{return_url}}@ Do not use
* @{{product.return_url}}@ Do not use
* @{{product.return_params}}@ Do not use

h4(#subscription). Subscription

* @{{subscription.id}}@ The subscription unique id within Chargify.
* @{{subscription.state}}@ The current state of the subscription. Please see the documentation for "Subscription States":/subscription-states
* @{{subscription.balance_in_cents}}@ Gives the current outstanding subscription balance in the number of cents.
* @{{subscription.current_period_started_at}}@ Timestamp relating to the start of the current (recurring) period
* @{{subscription.current_period_starts_at}}@ Timestamp relating to the start of the current (recurring) period
* @{{subscription.current_period_ends_at}}@ Timestamp relating to the end of the current (recurring) period (i.e. when the next regularly scheduled attempted charge will occur)
* @{{subscription.trial_started_at}}@ Timestamp for when the trial period (if any) began
* @{{subscription.trial_ended_at}}@ Timestamp for when the trial period (if any) ended
* @{{subscription.trial_ends_at}}@ Timestamp for when the trial period (if any) ended
* @{{subscription.activated_at}}@ (Read Only) Timestamp for when the subscription began (i.e. when it came out of trial, or when it began in the case of no trial)
* @{{subscription.expires_at}}@ Timestamp giving the expiration date of this subscription (if any)
* @{{subscription.cancellation_message}}@ Seller-provided reason for, or note about, the cancellation.
* @{{subscription.canceled_at}}@ Timestamp for when the subscription canceled (if it did)
* @{{subscription.cancel_at_end_of_period}}@ Whether or not the subscription will (or has) canceled at the end of the period. 
* @{{subscription.payment_collection_method}}@ The type of payment collection to be used in the subscription. May be automatic, or invoice.
* @{{subscription.coupon_code}}@ The coupon code of the coupon currently applied to the subscription (if any)
* @{{subscription.total_revenue_in_cents}}@ Gives the total revenue from the subscription in the number of cents.
* @{{subscription.estimated_renewal_amount_in_cents}}@ Estimated amount of the next renewal, in cents
* @{{subscription.current_billing_amount_in_cents}}@ The @balance_in_cents@ + the @estimated_renewal_amount_in_cents@
* @{{subscription.expires_at_end_of_period?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not the subscription expires at the end of the current period
* @{{subscription.total_revenue}}@ Gives the total revenue from the subscription in the number of cents.
* @{{subscription.estimated_renewal_amount}}@ The @estimated_renewal_amount_in_cents@, formatted in the currency of the subscription
* @{{subscription.current_billing_amount}}@ The @current_billing_amount_in_cents@, formatted in the currency of the subscription
* @{{subscription.payment_method_on_file?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not there is a @payment_profile@ present
* @{{subscription.card_on_file?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not the @payment_profile@ is a credit card
* @{{subscription.bank_account_on_file?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not the @payment_profile@ is a bank account
* @{{subscription.billing_portal?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not this customer is managed in Blling Portal
* @{{subscription.billing_portal_management_url}}@ The Billing Portal subscription management URL for this subscription, if Billing Portal is enabled
* @{{subscription.portal_invite_sent?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not the customer was emailed an invitation to manage their subscriptions in Billing Portal
* @{{subscription.referral_code}}@ The referral code which can be appended to Public Signup Page URLs.  See "Referrals":/referrals for more information.

h4(#product). Product

* @{{product.id}}@ The unique product id within Chargify 
* @{{product.name}}@ The product name
* @{{product.handle}}@ The product API handle
* @{{product.description}}@ The product description
* @{{product.accounting_code}}@ The product family accounting code (has no bearing in Chargify, may be used within your app)
* @{{product.price_in_cents}}@ The product price, in integer cents
* @{{product.initial_charge?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not the product has an initial charge
* @{{product.initial_charge_in_cents}}@ The up front charge you have specified.
* @{{product.expires?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not the product expires
* @{{product.offers_trial?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not the product offers a trial price
* @{{product.trial_price_in_cents}}@ The product trial price, in integer cents
* @{{product.update_return_url}}@ The URL a buyer is returned to after successful account update. See the section on "Product Return URLs and Parameters":/product-options#return-url-and-parameters
* @{{product.update_return_params}}@ The parameters string we will use in constructing your return URL. See the section on "Product Return URLs and Parameters":/product-options#return-url-and-parameters
* @{{product.request_credit_card?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not the product requests a credit card at signup
* @{{product.require_credit_card?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not the product requires a credit card at signup
* @{{product.archived?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not the product is currently archived
* @{{product.archived_at}}@ Timestamp for when the product was archived (if it was)
* @{{product.currency}}@ The product currency
* @{{product.price}}@ The product price, formatted in the product currency 
* @{{product.initial_charge}}@ The initial charge, formatted in the product currency
* @{{product.trial_price}}@ The trial price, formatted in the product currency
* @{{product.recurring_duration}}@ The length of one renewal period (e.g. 30 days, 1 year, etc.)
* @{{product.expiration_duration}}@ The length of time before the product expires (if it does)
* @{{product.trial_duration}}@ The length of the product trial (if there is one)

h4(#customer). Customer

* @{{customer.id}}@ The unique customer id within Chargify
* @{{customer.first_name}}@
* @{{customer.last_name}}@
* @{{customer.email}}@
* @{{customer.organization}}@
* @{{customer.reference}}@ The unique identifier used within your own application for this customer
* @{{customer.created_at}}@ Timestamp for when the customer was created
* @{{customer.address}}@
* @{{customer.address_2}}@
* @{{customer.city}}@
* @{{customer.state}}@
* @{{customer.zip}}@
* @{{customer.country}}@
* @{{customer.phone}}@
* @{{customer.billing_portal?}}@ True/false indicating whether or not this customer is managed in Billing Portal
* @{{customer.portal_invite_sent?}}@ True/false value indicating whether or not the customer was emailed an invitation to manage their subscriptions in Billing Portal

h4(#payment-profile). Payment Profile

* @{{payment_profile.id}}@ The unique payment profile id within Chargify
* @{{payment_profile.first_name}}@
* @{{payment_profile.last_name}}@
* @{{payment_profile.masked_card_number}}@ The customer's Credit Card, obscured to only show the last 4 digits.  e.g. XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1234
* @{{payment_profile.card_type}}@ The type of card used (bogus, visa, master, discover, american_express, diners_club, jcb, switch, solo, dankort, maestro, forbrugsforeningen, or laser)
* @{{payment_profile.brand}}@ The type of card used with it's correct spelling (Bogus, Visa, Master, ...)
* @{{payment_profile.billing_address}}@
* @{{payment_profile.billing_address_2}}@
* @{{payment_profile.billing_city}}@
* @{{payment_profile.billing_state}}@
* @{{payment_profile.billing_zip}}@
* @{{payment_profile.billing_country}}@
* @{{payment_profile.expiration_month}}@ Expiration month of the credit card on file
* @{{payment_profile.expiration_year}}@ Expiration year of the credit card on file
* @{{payment_profile.payment_method_type}}@ Either @card@ or @bank account@
* @{{payment_profile.payment_method_masked_number}}@ The masked credit card or bank account number, depending on which is on file
* @{{payment_profile.masked_bank_account_number}}@ The customer's bank account, obscured to show only the last 4 digits, e.g XXXXX1111
* @{{payment_profile.masked_bank_routing_number}}@ The customer's bank routing number, obscured to show only the last 4 digits, e.g. XXXXX1234
* @{{payment_profile.bank_name}}@ The customer's bank name
* @{{payment_profile.bank_account_type}}@ Either @checking@ or @savings@
* @{{payment_profile.bank_account_holder_type}}@ Either @personal@ or @business@

p(note). If you intend to use credit card-specific fields (like @masked_card_number@), be sure to wrap those sections of your email template in a @{% if subscription.card_on_file? %}...{% endif %}@ block, to ensure you only use those fields when the payment profile is a credit card. You can use the same technique when calling bank account-specific fields by using the @{% if subscription.bank_account_on_file? %}...{% endif %}@ block.

h4(#payment). Payment (only for receipt emails)

* @{{payment.amount}}@ The amount just paid, formatted in your currency
* @{{payment.amount_in_cents}}@ The amount just paid, in cents 
* @{{payment.card_expiration}}@ 
* @{{payment.card_number}}@ The customer's Credit Card, obscured to only show the last 4 digits.  e.g. XXXX-XXXX-XXXX-1234
* @{{payment.card_type}}@ The type of card used (bogus, visa, master, discover, american_express, diners_club, jcb, switch, solo, dankort, maestro, forbrugsforeningen, or laser)
* @{{payment.memo}}@
* @{{payment.success}}@ @true/false@
* @{{payment.test}}@ @true/false@
* @{{payment.gateway_transaction_id}}@ The transaction id from the gateway

h4(#metadata). Custom Fields (Metadata)

Unfortunately, Custom Fields are not available for use in the Email Templates.
