h3. Getting Started

We suggest starting with our "Quick Start Guide", specifically one of the following pages:

* "Chargify Overview":/overview - get quickly oriented to see where Chargify fits in to the big picture
* "Terminology":/terminology - learn the terms we'll use throughout these docs
* "Getting Started":/getting-started - a guide that helps you get up and running

If you're new to the concept of Merchant Accounts and Gateways, you may be interested in our "Basic Payment Gateway Requirements":http://support.chargify.com/faqs/getting-started/payment-gateway-requirements knowledge base article.

h3. API Integration

Chargify can be integrated with many environments and programming languages via our REST API.  Some of our users have contributed their API Wrappers in various programming languages.  Check out the "API Code Overview":/api-code doc for an introduction to the wrappers and available code samples.

Check out the list of "Chargify Consultants":http://chargify.com/consultants if you require deeper technical expertise for your integration.

We always enjoy (and appreciate) hearing about larger integrations ahead of time.  If you're planning on importing a large amount of data into Chargify via our API, we suggest sending a "heads up" to "support@chargify.com" so we can coordinate with you to ensure your import process goes smoothly.

Our API, while considered stable, is continually being improved and polished.  Please feel free to contact support if you experience issues when integrating with the Chargify API.

h3(#support). Support

h4. Written Ticket Tech Support

Written Ticket Tech Support (U.S. business hours) is available to merchants on any paid plan.  "Support for API integration":#api-support requires a plan of "Small Business" or higher.

"Open a support ticket":http://help.chargify.com/tickets/new via the support website, or send an email directly to "support@chargify.com".

While we strive to answer all of our merchants' questions in a timely fashion, please note that support requests are prioritized based on your current Chargify Plan.

Feel free to ask a question in the "public Community Support forum":https://chargify.zendesk.com/hc/communities/public/topics/200158374-Community-Community-Support to get help from the Chargify community.

h4(#api-support). API Support

Access to our Tier 2 team for API support is currently only available to customers on our Small Business ($129) plan or above given the cost of providing that level of support.

But don't worry! There are quite a few options to help you get the answers you need:

Upgrade to the Small Business plan: "Log into Chargify":https://app.chargify.com/ and click "Home" -> "Billing & Plans" -> "Change"

"Read through our helpful API documentation":https://docs.chargify.com/api-introduction

"Watch our videos and tutorials on YouTube":https://www.youtube.com/user/chargify

"Check out the Chargify tag on Stack Overflow":http://stackoverflow.com/questions/tagged/chargify

"Visit our community support forum":https://chargify.zendesk.com/hc/communities/public/topics/200158374-Community-Community-Support

"Refer to our trusted Integration Consultants":https://www.chargify.com/consultants/

h4. Basic Phone Support

Basic Phone Support (24/7) is available to all merchants, however, Tier 2 phone support is currently only available to merchants on the “Small Business” plan or higher.

Call 1-800-401-2414 to get Chargify support over the phone.

h4. Developer Support

If you are on the Developer (free) plan, please note that there is NO official Chargify support available for your plan at this time.  We make this distinction to ensure that our paying customers receive the appropriate time and attention they deserve to run their business.
