In Chargify you can create and use your own custom javascript. You can place the snippets within the Custom Javascript box found in your Hosted page Settings under the Settings tab in your account. 

NOTE: Use these snippets at your own caution. Using these snippets may conflict with any existing code you may have in your Custom Javascript Box. We are not resposible for any changes that may happen to any existing code caused of these snippets.

h4. Limit Signups to US

This javascript code will limit the country dropdown to only have US selectable.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Limit_to_US.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4. Require custom fields on Hosted pages

This code will allow Custom fields to be required on the hosted pages. You will need to know the ID of the custom field. You can find this by going to your custom fields in your chargify account and clicking edit on the custom field. You then place the ID in the XXX parts of the code 

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Require_custom_fields.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4. Hide summary infromation

This will allow to hide the recurring charges and component charges on the hosted page.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Hide_summary_information.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4. Change label text

This will allow you to change the name of a lable on your hosted page to anything else.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Change_label_text.js" type="text/javascript"></script>


h4. Change setup fee text 

This will allow to change the setup fee text to be anything else

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Change_setupfee_text.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4. Change submit button text

This will allow to change the submit button text from place my order to anything else.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Change_submit_button_text.js" type="text/javascript"></script>

h4. Force two components to be equal

In case you ever need to have one component equal the same value as another you can use this script to accomplish the task.

<script src="https://gist.github.com/Zarnithon/fb53647174652158afce.js?file=Force_equal_component_value.js" type="text/javascript"></script>