
Mass emailing subscribers provides a way for you to notify your subscribers of relevant information you need to communicate.  It is intended to deliver important information about system outages, plan/product changes, or other items that your affected users would need to know about.

h3. How it works

# Use the "Email Subscribers" link from the header of both the customers tab and the subscriptions tab.
# The first form shows all of your products.  You can send the email to all of your subscribers, or you can pick a subset of products.  Only customers subscribed to selected products will receive the email.  If a customer is subscribed to multiple selected products, they will only receive one copy of the email.
# The last form is where you craft the email.  The sender name and email will default from your merchant info but can be overridden for this email.  All four fields will be required to successfully send the email.

h3. Caveats

* This service is only available to paid accounts.  If you are on the free developer plan this will not be accessible until you upgrade your account.
* Do not use this as an email list.  Subscribers can't opt out of these emails so it should be used only for important information you need to get to your subscribed base.
* Be sure to provide proper context.  Chargify doesn't add any information to the email beyond what you enter so it needs to be clear from the body of the email what service is affected and why it is important to them.

h3. API Considerations

* Outbound emails to subscribers are not available through the API at this time.
