Components allow you to introduce additional "line items" to your Products that are often expressed as "add-ons", upsold features, or pay-per-use items. See the "blog post about quantity-based components":http://chargify.com/blog/new-feature-quantity-based-components/ that introduces the Components feature in general.

Components are defined at the Product Family level, and are therefore available to all Products within the Family.

p(note). Components that are "used" on a Subscription have their *charges billed at the end of the period* (which coincides with the start of the next period, which is when recurring charges are also billed).  See "Setting Component Allocations":/setting-component-allocations for more.

h2. Types of Components

h3. Quantity-based

This component type would be used when a Subscription is provisioned with a certain quantity of an item, and charges are calculated based on that quantity.  These components also give the ability to use different pricing schemes, such as per-unit, volume, tiered, and stairstep. Some examples:

* A Project Management tool allows you to purchase the ability to manage extra projects at $10 per month per project
* A hosting company that allows you to purchase additional IP addresses at $1 each per month
* Software seats that cost $100/each when you buy 1-5, $90/each when you buy 6-10, etc.


h3. Metered-usage

This component type would be used when a Subscription is assessed an amount based on the quantity used in any given period; the quantity resets to 0 at the beginning of each period. Some examples:

* An email gateway provides 1000 credits per period, but allows you to send over your credit limit at a cost of $0.10 per email per period
* A hosting company that charges for hours of compute time at a certain cost per hour

h3. On/Off

This component type is used to elect "add-on" options where electing the option results in an extra charge. Some examples:

* A web app offers an SSL connection upgrade at $5/month


h2. Configuring Components available for Product Families

<!-- TODO: insert a screenshot of defining products -->

Components are added to Product Families from the "Products" tab of a Site.  Creation is fairly self-explanatory with helpful embedded documentation.

p(warning). Configuring components is not currently available from within the API at the time of this writing.

h2. Setting Component allocations on Subscriptions

Once a Component has been defined for a Product Family, any Subscription to a Product within that Family may have usage or allocation data reported in order to assess charges for them at the end of the period.

For more information, please see "Setting Component Allocations":/setting-component-allocations.

p(warning). At the time of this writing, setting Component allocations can only be done from the API.  Unfortunately, this feature is not yet within the UI or Hosted Pages, but it is something we are working towards.