h3. v1.4.0 (5/2/2011)

* "Mass Email" feature - email your entire subscriber base, or just those subscribed to particular products

h3. v1.3.5 (4/19/2011)

* Chargify Direct response params now include the timestamp and nonce
* Added subscription data to the payment_success and payment_failure webhooks

h3. v1.3.0 (4/7/2011)

* Alpha release of API V2

h3. v1.2.10

* Improved timing of when and if $1 card authorizations are completed

h3. v1.2.9 (3/18/2011)

* Reduced default fetch size of API resources from 2000 to 200

h3. v1.2.7 (3/17/2011)

* Performance improvements to site header stats

h3. v1.2.6 (3/5/2011)

* Configurable card expiration emails

h3. v1.2.5 (3/4/2011)

* Merchants signing up will now see a receipt page with helpful "getting started" information
* Coupon end dates are now selectable via a date picker widget
* The 'enabled' input for On/Off Components in the API now accepts true/false, yes/no, etc (using 'allocated_quantity' as a workaround is no longer required)
* Clarfified wording on the "Add a Charge" page to indicate that existing balance credits are not used before the credit card is charged
* Added the 'canceled_at' field to the Subscription resource in the API

h3. v1.2.4 (2/27/2011)

* Updated gateway operations to authorize credit cards on storage and update
* Added support for Statements in the API

h3. v1.2.3 (2/16/2011)

* Added ability to cancel a subscription at the end of the period
* Coupon enhancements, including recurring coupons and balance carry-over

h3. v1.2.2 (2/9/2011)

* Fixed a bug that caused blank return params when the signup was completed without a credit card
* Changed statement language for "Balance Due" to "Ending Balance" to clear up confusion over having a positive "Balance Due" and a "PAID" stamp at the same time
* Fixed a bug that resulted in an Internal Server Error when search results returned enough results to require pagination

h3. v1.2.1 (2/4/2011)

* "Statements":/statements general release
* Tweaked display of XHTML and HTML statement views
* Fixed delayed settlement issues in historical data
* Finalized html_view semantic markup (can be embedded within merchant apps)

h3. v1.2.0 (2/1/2011)

* "Zferral affiliate marketing integration":/zferral-integration

h3. v1.1.0 (1/24/2011)

* "Statements":/statements initial release

Fine print: "v1.1.0" is the arbitrary starting point to describe releases in our public release notes.